#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{ae,aecompl}
\usepackage{hyperref}
\usepackage{html}
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding latin1
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 1.25in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1.25in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy

\layout Title

IPython
\newline 

\size larger 
An enhanced Interactive Python
\size large 

\newline 
User Manual, v.
 __version__
\layout Author

Fernando Pérez
\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
latex{
\end_inset 


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard
}
\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
html{
\backslash 
bodytext{bgcolor=#ffffff}}
\end_inset 


\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Overview
\layout Standard

One of Python's most useful features is its interactive interpreter.
 This system allows very fast testing of ideas without the overhead of creating
 test files as is typical in most programming languages.
 However, the interpreter supplied with the standard Python distribution
 is somewhat limited for extended interactive use.
\layout Standard

IPython is a free software project (released under the GNU LGPL
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

IPython is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
 WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
 FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
 See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
 Its full text is included in the file GNU-LGPL or can be obtained directly
 from the Free Software Foundation at: 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl{http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html}

\end_inset 

.
\end_inset 

) which tries to:
\layout Enumerate

Provide an interactive shell superior to Python's default.
 IPython has many features for object introspection, system shell access,
 and its own special command system for adding functionality when working
 interactively.
 It tries to be a very efficient environment both for Python code development
 and for exploration of problems using Python objects (in situations like
 data analysis).
\layout Enumerate

Serve as an embeddable, ready to use interpreter for your own programs.
 IPython can be started with a single call from inside another program,
 providing access to the current namespace.
 This can be very useful both for debugging purposes and for situations
 where a blend of batch-processing and interactive exploration are needed.
\layout Enumerate

Offer a flexible framework which can be used as the base environment for
 other systems with Python as the underlying language.
 Specifically scientific environments like Mathematica, IDL and Mathcad
 inspired its design, but similar ideas can be useful in many fields.
\layout Subsection

Main features
\layout Itemize

Dynamic object introspection.
 One can access docstrings, function definition prototypes, source code,
 source files and other details of any object accessible to the interpreter
 with a single keystroke ('?').
\layout Itemize

Numbered input/output prompts with command history (persistent across sessions),
 full searching in this history and caching of all input and output.
\layout Itemize

Macro system for quickly re-executing multiple lines of previous input with
 a single name.
\layout Itemize

Session logging (you can then later use these logs as code in your programs).
\layout Itemize

Session restoring: logs can be replayed to restore a previous session to
 the state where you left it.
\layout Itemize

User-extensible 'magic' commands.
 A set of commands prefixed with 
\family typewriter 
@
\family default 
 is available for controlling IPython itself and provides directory control,
 namespace information and many aliases to common system shell commands.
\layout Itemize

Alias facility for defining your own system aliases.
\layout Itemize

Complete system shell access.
 Lines starting with ! are passed directly to the system shell.
\layout Itemize

Completion in the local namespace, by typing TAB at the prompt.
 This works for keywords, methods, variables and files in the current directory.
 This is supported via the readline library, and full access to configuring
 readline's behavior is provided.
\layout Itemize

Verbose and colored exception traceback printouts.
 Easier to parse visually, and in verbose mode they produce a lot of useful
 debugging information (basically a terminal version of the cgitb module).
\layout Itemize

Auto-parentheses: callable objects can be executed without parentheses:
 
\family typewriter 
'sin 3'
\family default 
 is automatically converted to 
\family typewriter 
'sin(3)
\family default 
'.
\layout Itemize

Auto-quoting: using ',' as the first character forces auto-quoting of the
 rest of the line: 
\family typewriter 
',my_function a b'
\family default 
 becomes automatically 
\family typewriter 
'my_function("a","b")'.
\layout Itemize

Extensible input syntax.
 You can define filters that pre-process user input to simplify input in
 special situations.
 This allows for example pasting multi-line code fragments which start with
 
\family typewriter 
'>>>'
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
'...'
\family default 
 such as those from other python sessions or the standard Python documentation.
\layout Itemize

Flexible configuration system.
 It uses a configuration file which allows permanent setting of all command-line
 options, module loading, code and file execution.
 The system allows recursive file inclusion, so you can have a base file
 with defaults and layers which load other customizations for particular
 projects.
\layout Itemize

Embeddable.
 You can call IPython as a python shell inside your own python programs.
 This can be used both for debugging code or for providing interactive abilities
 to your programs with knowledge about the local namespaces (very useful
 in data analysis situations, for example).
\layout Itemize

Easy debugger access.
 You can set IPython to call up the Python debugger (pdb) every time there
 is an uncaught exception.
 This drops you inside the code which triggered the exception with all the
 data live and its possible to navigate the stack to rapidly isolate the
 source of a bug.
\layout Itemize

Profiler support.
 You can run single statements (similar to 
\family typewriter 
profile.run()
\family default 
) or complete programs under the profiler's control.
\layout Subsection

Portability and Python requirements
\layout Standard

Developed under 
\series bold 
Linux
\series default 
, should work under most unices (tested OK under Solaris).
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Mac OS X
\series default 
: it works, apparently without any problems (thanks to Jim Boyle at Lawrence
 Livermore for the information).
\layout Standard


\series bold 
CygWin
\series default 
: I would guess this environment is Unix enough for IPython to work unchanged
 (any comments welcome).
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Windows
\series default 
: It works fairly well under Windows XP, and I suspect NT and Win2000 should
 work similarly.
 Windows 9x support has been added but has seen very little testing, as
 I don't have access to a machine with that operating system.
 Comments welcome.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
MacOS Classic
\series default 
: it may work (I have no idea), and if not it should be reasonably easy
 to port it.
 But someone else will have to do that, since I have no access to a Macintosh.
\layout Standard

IPython requires Python version 2.1 or newer.
 It has been tested with Python 2.2 and showed no problems.
\layout Subsection

Location
\layout Standard

Currently IPython can be found at 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl{http://www-hep.colorado.edu/~fperez/ipython}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:install}

\end_inset 

Installation
\layout Subsection

Instant instructions
\layout Standard

If you are of the impatient kind, simply untar/unzip the download, install
 with 
\family typewriter 
'python setup.py install'
\family default 
 under Linux/Unix or by double-clicking the 
\family typewriter 
setup.py
\family default 
 file under Windows, and take a look at Sections 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:good_config}

\end_inset 

 for configuring things optimally and 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:quick_tips}

\end_inset 

 for quick tips on efficient use of IPython.
 You can later refer to the rest of the manual for all the gory details.
\layout Standard

See the notes in sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:upgrade}

\end_inset 

 for upgrading IPython versions.
\layout Subsection

Under Unix-type operating systems (Linux, Mac OS X, etc.)
\layout Enumerate

Unzip/untar the 
\family typewriter 
IPython-XXX.tar.gz
\family default 
 file wherever you want (XXX is the version number).
 It will make a directory called 
\family typewriter 
IPython-XXX.
 
\family default 
Change into that directory where you will find the files 
\family typewriter 
README
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
setup.py
\family default 
.

\family typewriter 
 O
\family default 
nce you've completed the installation, you can safely remove this directory.
 
\layout Enumerate

If you are installing over a previous installation of version 0.2.0 or earlier,
 first remove your 
\family typewriter 
$HOME/.ipython
\family default 
 directory, since the configuration file format has changed somewhat (the
 '=' were removed from all option specifications).
 Or you can call ipython with the 
\family typewriter 
-upgrade
\family default 
 option and it will do this automatically for you.
\layout Enumerate

IPython uses distutils, so you can install it simply by typing at the system
 prompt (don't type the 
\family typewriter 
$
\family default 
)
\newline 

\family typewriter 
$ python setup.py install
\family default 

\newline 
Note that this assumes you have root access to your machine.
 If you don't have root access or don't want IPython to go in the default
 python directories, you'll need to use the 
\family typewriter 
--home
\family default 
 option.
 For example:
\newline 

\family typewriter 
$ python setup.py install --home $HOME/local
\family default 

\newline 
will install
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

If you are reading these instructions in HTML format, please note that the
 option is --home, with 
\emph on 
two
\emph default 
 dashes.
 The automatic HTML conversion program seems to eat up one of the dashes,
 unfortunately (it's ok in the PDF version).
\end_inset 

 IPython into 
\family typewriter 
$HOME/local 
\family default 
and its subdirectories (creating them if necessary).
\newline 
You can type
\newline 

\family typewriter 
$ python setup.py --help
\family default 

\newline 
for more details.
\layout Standard

Note that when installing, you will see some 
\family typewriter 
SyntaxError
\family default 
 messages go by rapidly.
 Please ignore them, they are completely harmless (the result of an ugly
 but necessary hack around some limitations of distutils).
\layout Subsubsection

RedHat 7.x notes
\layout Standard

RedHat made the 'wise' choice of using Python 1.5.2 as the default standard
 even for users (not just for internal system stuff).
 Since they couldn't be bothered to make things right, now you need to manually
 play around to get things to work with Python 2.x (which IPython requires).
\layout Standard

First, your system administrator may have fixed things so that as a user
 you automagically see python 2.x.
 Test this by typing 
\family typewriter 
'python' 
\family default 
at the prompt.
 If you get a Python 2.x prompt, you're safe.
 Otherwise you'll need to explicitly call Python2.
\layout Standard

Start by making sure you did install Python 2.x.
 The rpm for it is named 
\family typewriter 
python2....rpm
\family default 
.
 You can check by typing 
\family typewriter 
'python2'
\family default 
 at the command prompt and seeing if you get a python prompt with 2.x as
 the version.
 If you don't have it, install the Python 2.x rpm now.
\layout Standard

Once you have confirmed you have Python 2.x installed, call the IPython setup
 routine as 
\newline 

\family typewriter 
$ python2 setup.py install
\layout Standard

Hopefully, things will work.
 If they don't, go yell at RedHat, not me.
 
\layout Subsubsection

Mac OSX notes
\layout Standard

Apparently the problems which Mac OSX users may encounter with in the terminal
 window are due to poor VT100 emulation on Apple's part.
 
\layout Standard

I don't have access to a Mac, so I rely on the helpful users from the OSX
 community for feedback on this issue.
 The information below was graciously provided by Andrea Riciputti from
 the Fink project, and I reproduce it unaltered hoping that it will be useful
 to others.
 If you find a mistake/update to this information, please let me know so
 that I can include it in future releases.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Note
\series default 
: I don't know if this information applies to 10.2 (Jaguar).
 It is 
\emph on 
possible 
\emph default 
that 10.2 fixes these problems, but this information has not been confirmed.
 Please let me know of any details concerning Jaguar which should be added
 to this documentation.
\layout Standard

Many thanks to Andrea for taking the time to do this.
 His Mini-HOWTO follows.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Mac OSX Terminal Mini-HOWTO
\layout Standard

From: Andrea Riciputi <andrea.riciputi@libero.it>
\layout Standard

Date: Thu, 28 Nov 2002 19:07:20 +0100 
\layout Standard

1) In order to get IPython works smoothly on MacOSX you have to reset the
 TERM env variable as follow:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
% setenv TERM xterm
\layout Standard

2) Done.
 Open a new terminal window and start ipython setting 
\family typewriter 
color
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
color_info
\family default 
 to 1.
 Everything will go well!!
\layout Standard

3) If someone wants to know more about this topics please look at these
 links:
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl{http://www.nyangau.fsnet.co.uk/terminfo/terminfo.htm}

\end_inset 

 (not so easy)
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl{http://www.cs.utk.edu/~shuford/terminal/vt100_colorized_termcap.tx}

\end_inset 

 (not easy at all) 
\layout Subsection

Under Windows
\layout Standard

Please note that for the automatic installer to work you need Mark Hammond's
 PythonWin extensions (and they're great for anything Windows-related anyway,
 so you might as well get them).
 If you don't have them, get them at:
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl{http://starship.python.net/crew/mhammond/}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

From the download directory grab the 
\family typewriter 
IPython-XXX.zip
\family default 
 file (but the popular WinZip handles 
\family typewriter 
.tar.gz
\family default 
 files perfectly, so use that if you have WinZip and want a smaller download).
 
\layout Standard

Unzip it and double-click on the 
\family typewriter 
setup.py
\family default 
 file.
 A text console should open and proceed to install IPython in your system.
 If all goes well, that's all you need to do.
 You should now have an IPython entry in your Start Menu with links to IPython
 and the manuals.
\layout Standard

If you don't have PythonWin, you can:
\layout Itemize

Copy the 
\family typewriter 
doc
\backslash 

\family default 
 directory wherever you want it (it contains the manuals in HTML and PDF).
\layout Itemize

Create a shortcut to the main IPython script, located in the 
\family typewriter 
Scripts
\family default 
 subdirectory of your Python installation directory.
\layout Standard

These steps are basically what the auto-installer does for you.
\layout Standard

IPython tries to install the configuration information in a directory named
 
\family typewriter 
.ipython
\family default 
 located in your 'home' directory, which it determines by joining the environmen
t variables 
\family typewriter 
HOMEDRIVE
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
HOMEPATH
\family default 
.
 This typically gives something like 
\family typewriter 
C:
\backslash 
Documents and Settings
\backslash 
YourUserName
\family default 
, but your local details may vary.
 In this directory you will find all the files that configure IPython's
 defaults, and you can put there your profiles and extensions.
 This directory is automatically added by IPython to 
\family typewriter 
sys.path
\family default 
, so anything you place there can be found by 
\family typewriter 
import
\family default 
 statements.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:upgrade}

\end_inset 

Upgrading from a previous version
\layout Standard

If you are upgrading from a previous version of IPython, after doing the
 routine installation described above, you should call IPython with the
 
\family typewriter 
-upgrade
\family default 
 option the first time you run your new copy.
 This will automatically update your configuration directory while preserving
 copies of your old files.
 You can then later merge back any personal customizations you may have
 made into the new files.
 It is a good idea to do this as there may be new options available in the
 new configuration files which you will not have.
\layout Standard

Under Windows, if you don't know how to call python scripts with arguments
 from a command line, simply delete the old config directory and IPython
 will make a new one.
 Win2k and WinXP users will find it in 
\family typewriter 
C:
\backslash 
Documents and Settings
\backslash 
YourUserName
\backslash 
.ipython
\family default 
, and Win 9x users under 
\family typewriter 
C:
\backslash 
Program Files
\backslash 
IPython
\backslash 
.ipython.
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:good_config}

\end_inset 

Initial configuration of your environment
\layout Standard

This section will help you set various things in your environment for your
 IPython sessions to be as efficient as possible.
 All of IPython's configuration information, along with several example
 files, is stored in a directory named by default 
\family typewriter 
$HOME/.ipython
\family default 
.
 You can change this by defining the environment variable 
\family typewriter 
IPYTHONDIR
\family default 
, or at runtime with the command line option 
\family typewriter 
-ipythondir
\family default 
.
\layout Standard

If all goes well, the first time you run IPython it should automatically
 create a user copy of the config directory for you, based on its builtin
 defaults.
 You can look at the files it creates to learn more about configuring the
 system.
 The main file you will modify to configure IPython's behavior is called
 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc
\family default 
, included for reference in Sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:ipytonrc-sample}

\end_inset 

.
 This file is very commented and has many variables you can change to suit
 your taste, you can find more details in Sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:customization}

\end_inset 

.
 Here we discuss the basic things you will want to make sure things are
 working properly from the beginning.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:help-access}

\end_inset 

Access to the Python help system
\layout Standard

This is true for Python 2.1 in general (not just for IPython): you should
 have an environment variable called 
\family typewriter 
PYTHONDOCS
\family default 
 pointing to the directory where your HTML Python documentation lives.
 In my system it's 
\family typewriter 
/usr/share/doc/python-docs-2.1.1
\family default 
, check your local details or ask your systems administrator.
 
\layout Standard

This is the directory which holds the HTML version of the Python manuals.
 Unfortunately it seems that different Linux distributions package these
 files differently, so you may have to look around a bit.
 Below I show the contents of this directory on my system for reference:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
[python-docs-2.2]> ls 
\newline 
about.html api/ doc/ icons/ inst/ mac/ ref/ acks.html dist/ ext/ index.html
 lib/ modindex.html tut/ 
\layout Standard

You should really make sure this variable is correctly set so that Python's
 pydoc-based help system works.
 It is a powerful and convenient system with full access to the Python manuals
 and all modules accessible to you.
\layout Standard

Under Windows it seems that pydoc finds the documentation automatically,
 so no extra setup appears necessary.
\layout Subsection

Editor
\layout Standard

The 
\family typewriter 
@edit
\family default 
 command (and its alias 
\family typewriter 
@ed
\family default 
) will invoke the editor set in your environment as 
\family typewriter 
EDITOR
\family default 
.
 If this variable is not set, it will default to 
\family typewriter 
vi
\family default 
 under Linux/Unix and to 
\family typewriter 
notepad
\family default 
 under Windows.
 You may want to set this variable properly and to a lightweight editor
 which doesn't take too long to start (that is, something other than a new
 instance of 
\family typewriter 
Emacs
\family default 
).
 This way you can edit multi-line code quickly and with the power of a real
 editor right inside IPython.
 
\layout Standard

If you are a dedicated 
\family typewriter 
Emacs
\family default 
 user, you should set up the 
\family typewriter 
Emacs
\family default 
 server so that new requests are handled by the original process.
 This means that almost no time is spent in handling the request (assuming
 an 
\family typewriter 
Emacs
\family default 
 process is already running).
 For this wo work, you need to set your 
\family typewriter 
EDITOR 
\family default 
environment variable to 
\family typewriter 
'emacsclient'
\family default 
.

\family typewriter 
 
\family default 
The code below, supplied by François Pinard, can then be used in your 
\family typewriter 
.emacs
\family default 
 file to enable the server:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
(defvar server-buffer-clients)
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
(when (and (fboundp 'server-start) (string-equal (getenv "TERM") 'xterm))
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
(server-start)
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
(defun fp-kill-server-with-buffer-routine ()
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
(and server-buffer-clients (server-done)))
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
(add-hook 'kill-buffer-hook 'fp-kill-server-with-buffer-routine))
\layout Standard

You can also set the value of this editor via the commmand-line option '-
\family typewriter 
editor'
\family default 
 or in your 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc
\family default 
 file.
 This is useful if you wish to use specifically for IPython an editor different
 from your typical default (and for Windows users which typically don't
 set environment variables).
\layout Subsection

Color 
\layout Standard

The default IPython configuration has most bells and whistles turned on
 (they're pretty safe).
 But there's one that 
\emph on 
may
\emph default 
 cause problems on some systems: the use of color on screen for displaying
 information.
 This is very useful, since IPython can show prompts and exception tracebacks
 with various colors, display syntax-highlighted source code, and in general
 make it easier to visually parse information.
 But not all terminals out there have reliable support for on-screen color,
 so these options are not enabled by default to avoid confusing new users
 with on-screen garbage.
\layout Standard

The following terminals seem to handle the color sequences fine:
\layout Itemize

Linux main text console, KDE Konsole, Gnome Terminal, E-term, rxvt, xterm.
\layout Itemize

CDE terminal (tested under Solaris).
 This one boldfaces light colors.
\layout Itemize

(X)Emacs buffers.
 See sec.
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:emacs}

\end_inset 

 for more details on using IPython with (X)Emacs.
\layout Standard

These have shown problems:
\layout Itemize

Windows command prompt in Win2k/XP logged into a Linux machine via telnet
 or ssh.
\layout Itemize

Windows native command prompt in Win2k/XP for local execution.
 Colors do not work at all.
 The installer is set up to disable colors by default.
 If you have a terminal replacement which can handle colors, you can turn
 them back on.
 Test it by typing '
\family typewriter 
colors Linux
\family default 
' at the prompt: if you get garbage on screen, go back with '
\family typewriter 
colors NoColor
\family default 
'.
\newline 
Note that under Windows, if you use the CygWin environment, coloring (and
 readline-related features) all work correctly.
\layout Standard

Currently the following color schemes are available:
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
NoColor
\family default 
: uses no color escapes at all (all escapes are empty 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

 strings).
 This 'scheme' is thus fully safe to use in any terminal.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
Linux
\family default 
: works well in Linux console type environments: dark background with light
 fonts.
 It uses bright colors for information, so it is difficult to read if you
 have a light colored background.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
LightBG
\family default 
: the basic colors are similar to those in the 
\family typewriter 
Linux
\family default 
 scheme but darker.
 It is easy to read in terminals with light backgrounds.
\layout Standard

IPython uses colors for two main groups of things: prompts and tracebacks
 which are directly printed to the terminal, and the object introspection
 system which passes large sets of data through a pager.
\layout Subsubsection

Input/Output prompts and exception tracebacks
\layout Standard

You can test whether the colored prompts and tracebacks work on your system
 interactively by typing 
\family typewriter 
'@colors Linux'
\family default 
 at the prompt (use '
\family typewriter 
@colors LightBG'
\family default 
 if your terminal has a light background).
 If the input prompt shows garbage like:
\newline 

\family typewriter 
[0;32mIn [[1;32m1[0;32m]: [0;00m
\family default 

\newline 
instead of (in color) something like:
\newline 

\family typewriter 
In [1]:
\family default 
 
\newline 
this means that your terminal doesn't properly handle color escape sequences.
 You can go to a 'no color' mode by typing '
\family typewriter 
@colors NoColor
\family default 
'.
 
\layout Standard

You can try using a different terminal emulator program.
 To permanently set your color preferences, edit the file
\family typewriter 
 $HOME/.ipython/ipythonrc 
\family default 
and set the 
\family typewriter 
colors
\family default 
 option to the desired value.
\layout Subsubsection

Object details (types, docstrings, source code, etc.)
\layout Standard

IPython has a set of special functions for studying the objects you are
 working with, discussed in detail in Sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:dyn-object-info}

\end_inset 

.
 But this system relies on passing information which is longer than your
 screen through a data pager, such as the common Unix 
\family typewriter 
less
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
more
\family default 
 programs.
 In order to be able to see this information in color, your pager needs
 to be properly configured.
 I strongly recommend using 
\family typewriter 
less
\family default 
 instead of 
\family typewriter 
more
\family default 
, as it seems that 
\family typewriter 
more
\family default 
 simply can not understand colored text correctly.
\layout Standard

In order to configure 
\family typewriter 
less
\family default 
 as your default pager, do the following:
\layout Enumerate

Set the environment 
\family typewriter 
PAGER
\family default 
 variable to 
\family typewriter 
less
\family default 
.
\layout Enumerate

Set the environment 
\family typewriter 
LESS
\family default 
 variable to 
\family typewriter 
-r
\family default 
 (plus any other options you always want to pass to 
\family typewriter 
less
\family default 
 by default).
 This tells 
\family typewriter 
less
\family default 
 to properly interpret control sequences, which is how color information
 is given to your terminal.
\layout Standard

For the 
\family typewriter 
csh
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
tcsh
\family default 
 shells, add to your 
\family typewriter 
~/.cshrc
\family default 
 file the lines:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
setenv PAGER less
\newline 
setenv LESS -r
\layout Standard

There is similar syntax for other Unix shells, look at your system documentation
 for details.
\layout Standard

If you are on a system which lacks proper data pagers (such as Windows),
 IPython will use a very limited builtin pager.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:emacs}

\end_inset 

Tips specific to (X)Emacs users
\layout Standard

To the best of my knowledge, the comments below apply both to GNU Emacs
 and to XEmacs
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

This section, and the lisp code in it, owes a lot to the kind help and comments
 by Milan Zamazal <pdm@zamazal.org>.
 Many thanks to him.
\end_inset 

.
\layout Standard

In X/Emacs we get the following types of terminals (as returned by 
\family typewriter 
os.environ['TERM']
\family default 
):
\layout Itemize

Term buffers (
\family typewriter 
M-x term
\family default 
): 'eterm' terminal type.
\layout Itemize

Shell buffers (
\family typewriter 
M-x shell
\family default 
): 'emacs' terminal type (or 'dumb' in some versions).
\layout Itemize

Python interpreter (comint) buffers (
\family typewriter 
C-c\SpecialChar ~
!
\family default 
): 'emacs' terminal type (or 'dumb' in some versions).
\layout Subsubsection

Color support
\layout Standard

All of these terminal types will support coloring of prompts and tracebacks,
 even though only light versions of colors seem to be displayed.
 I may write an Emacs-specific color scheme in the future (contributions
 welcome, look at 
\family typewriter 
ultraTB.py
\family default 
 for details).
 But for this color support to work properly, you must first copy the following
 lines to your 
\family typewriter 
.emacs
\family default 
 file:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
;; Configuration for IPython, thanks to Alex Schmolck.
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
;; For things to really work correctly, a recent (4.22 or newer) version
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
;; of python-mode.el is needed.
 Note that tab completion is currently NOT
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
;; working.
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
;; Get colors working correctly
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
(defun my-activate-ansi-colors ()
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
(require 'ansi-color)
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
(ansi-color-for-comint-mode-on))
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
(add-hook 'py-shell-hook 'my-activate-ansi-colors)
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
;; Regular expression that describes tracebacks for IPython in context and
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
;; verbose mode.
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
(add-hook 'python-mode-hook
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
'(lambda ()
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
;; this works for @xmode verbose or context
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
(setq py-traceback-line-re
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
"^
\backslash 

\backslash 
(.+?
\backslash 

\backslash 
) in [^
\backslash 
00]+?
\backslash 
n--> 
\backslash 

\backslash 
([0-9]+
\backslash 

\backslash 
) +")))
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
(setq py-shell-input-prompt-1-regexp "^In 
\backslash 

\backslash 
[[0-9]+
\backslash 

\backslash 
]: "
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
py-shell-input-prompt-2-regexp "^ [.][.][.]+: " )
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
;; Set IPython to be the python command and give it arguments
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
(setq py-python-command "ipython")
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
(setq py-python-command-args
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
(cond
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
((eq frame-background-mode 'dark)
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
'("-colors" "Linux"))
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
((eq frame-background-mode 'light)
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
'("-colors" "LightBG"))
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
(t ; default (backg-mode isn't always set by XEmacs)
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
'("-colors" "LightBG"))
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
))
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
;; End IPython configuration
\layout Standard

You can customize the above to suit your personal preferences.
\layout Subsubsection

Name completion
\layout Standard

'eterm' buffers support TAB name completion like a normal terminal, but
 'emacs' and 'dumb' ones do not support it well, because Emacs itself takes
 control of line input.
 You will thus lose full name completion in an IPython buffer started via
 
\family typewriter 
C-c\SpecialChar ~
!
\family default 
.
 All other features of IPython will work normally.
 
\layout Standard

Still, name completion works to some extent: the completions are not printed
 when you hit TAB, instead you must hit Return after TAB (giving a 
\family typewriter 
SyntaxError
\family default 
, of course).
 At this point you get a printout of the possible completions and you can
 get your previous line with 
\family typewriter 
Ctrl-UpArrow
\family default 
.
 Not perfect, but better than nothing.
\layout Standard

I know it's clumsy, but so far efforts to fix this have failed.
 Any Emacs gurus out there who can think of a clean way to fix this are
 encouraged to contact the developers at the addresses given in sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:credits}

\end_inset 

.
 The issue (I think) boils down to the following: Emacs only prints the
 contents of a command received by its sub-process in a comint buffer when
 it gets an EOL (or more precisely, the result of 
\family typewriter 
comint-send-input
\family default 
).
 At that point it prints out all the buffered contents from the subprocess.
 But for normal TAB completion to work, one needs to print the list of completio
ns at the current cursor position (possibly completing part of the line)
 
\emph on 
before
\emph default 
 the command is finished.
 So a kind of catch-22 situation arises.
 As I said, all ideas/fixes are welcome from the Emacs gurus out there.
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:quick_tips}

\end_inset 

Quick tips
\layout Standard

IPython can be used as an improved replacement for the Python prompt, and
 for that you don't really need to read any more of this manual.
 But in this section we'll try to summarize a few tips on how to make the
 most effective use of it for everyday Python development, highlighting
 things you might miss in the rest of the manual (which is getting long).
 We'll give references to parts in the manual which provide more detail
 when appropriate.
\layout Itemize

The TAB key.
 TAB-completion, especially for attributes, is a convenient way to explore
 the structure of any object you're dealing with.
 Simply type 
\family typewriter 
object_name.<TAB>
\family default 
 and a list of the object's attributes will be printed (see sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:readline}

\end_inset 

 for more).
 Tab completion also works on file and directory names, which combined with
 IPython's alias system allows you to do from within IPython many of the
 things you normally would need the system shell for.
 Note that this feature does not work on platforms lacking readline support,
 such as Windows.
\layout Itemize

Explore your objects.
 Typing 
\family typewriter 
object_name?
\family default 
 will print all sorts of details about any object, including docstrings,
 function definition lines (for call arguments) and constructor details
 for classes.
 The magic commands 
\family typewriter 
@pdoc
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
@pdef
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
@psource
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
@pfile
\family default 
 will respectively print the docstring, function definition line, full source
 code and the complete file for any object (when they can be found).
 If automagic is on (it is by default), you don't need to type the '
\family typewriter 
@
\family default 
' explicitly.
 See sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:dyn-object-info}

\end_inset 

 for more.
\layout Itemize

The 
\family typewriter 
@run
\family default 
 magic command allows you to run any python script and load all of its data
 directly into the interactive namespace.
 Since the file is re-read from disk each time, changes you make to it are
 reflected immediately (in contrast to the behavior of 
\family typewriter 
import
\family default 
).
 I rarely use 
\family typewriter 
import
\family default 
 for code I am testing, relying on 
\family typewriter 
@run
\family default 
 instead.
 See sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:magic}

\end_inset 

 for more on this and other magic commands, or type the name of any magic
 command and ? to get details on it.
 See also sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:dreload}

\end_inset 

 for a recursive reload command.
\layout Itemize

Use the Python debugger, pdb
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

Thanks to Christian Hart for the suggestions leading to this feature and
 the profiler support.
\end_inset 

.
 The 
\family typewriter 
@pdb
\family default 
 command allows you to toggle on and off the automatic invocation of the
 pdb debugger at any uncaught exception.
 The advantage of this is that pdb starts 
\emph on 
inside
\emph default 
 the function where the exception occurred, with all data still available.
 You can print variables, see code, execute statements and even walk up
 and down the call stack to track down the true source of the problem (which
 often is many layers in the stack above where the exception gets triggered).
\newline 
Running programs with 
\family typewriter 
@run
\family default 
 and pdb active can be an efficient to develop and debug code, in many cases
 eliminating the need for 
\family typewriter 
print
\family default 
 statements or external debugging tools.
 I often simply put a 
\family typewriter 
1/0
\family default 
 in a place where I want to take a look so that pdb gets called, quickly
 view whatever variables I need to or test various pieces of code and then
 remove the 
\family typewriter 
1/0
\family default 
.
\layout Itemize

Use the output cache.
 All output results are automatically stored in a global dictionary named
 
\family typewriter 
Out
\family default 
 and variables named 
\family typewriter 
_1
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
_2
\family default 
, etc.
 alias them.
 For example, the result of input line 4 is available either as 
\family typewriter 
Out[4]
\family default 
 or as 
\family typewriter 
_4
\family default 
.
 Additionally, three variables named 
\family typewriter 
_
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
__
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
___
\family default 
 are always kept updated with the for the last three results.
 This allows you to recall any previous result and further use it for new
 calculations.
 See sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:cache_output}

\end_inset 

 for more.
\layout Itemize

Put a '
\family typewriter 
;
\family default 
' at the end of a line to supress the printing of output.
 This is useful when doing calculations which generate long output you are
 not interested in seeing.
 The 
\family typewriter 
_*
\family default 
 variables ant the 
\family typewriter 
Out[]
\family default 
 list do get updated with the contents of the output, even if it is not
 printed.
 You can thus still access the generated results this way for further processing.
\layout Itemize

A similar system exists for caching input.
 All input is stored in a global list called 
\family typewriter 
In
\family default 
 , so you can re-execute lines 22 through 28 plus line 34 by typing 
\family typewriter 
'exec In[22:29]+In[34]'
\family default 
 (using Python slicing notation).
 If you need to execute the same set of lines often, you can assign them
 to a macro with the 
\family typewriter 
@macro
\family default 
 
\family typewriter 
function.
 
\family default 
See sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:cache_input}

\end_inset 

 for more.
\layout Itemize

Use your input history.
 The 
\family typewriter 
@hist
\family default 
 command can show you all previous input, without line numbers if desired
 (option 
\family typewriter 
-n
\family default 
) so you can directly copy and paste code either back in IPython or in a
 text editor.
 You can also save all your history by turning on logging via 
\family typewriter 
@logstart
\family default 
; these logs can later be either reloaded as IPython sessions or used as
 code for your programs.
\layout Itemize

Define your own macros with 
\family typewriter 
@macro
\family default 
.
 This can be useful for automating sequences of expressions when working
 interactively.
\layout Itemize

Define your own system aliases.
 Even though IPython gives you access to your system shell via the ! prefix,
 it is convenient to have aliases to the system commands you use most often.
 This allows you to work seamlessly from inside IPython with the same commands
 you are used to in your system shell.
\newline 
IPython comes with some pre-defined aliases and a complete system for changing
 directories, both via a stack (see 
\family typewriter 
@pushd
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
@popd
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
@ds
\family default 
) and via direct 
\family typewriter 
@cd
\family default 
.
 The latter keeps a history of visited directories and allows you to go
 to any previously visited one.
\layout Itemize

Use profiles to maintain different configurations (modules to load, function
 definitions, option settings) for particular tasks.
 You can then have customized versions of IPython for specific purposes.
 See sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:profiles}

\end_inset 

 for more.
\layout Itemize

Embed IPython in your programs.
 A few lines of code are enough to load a complete IPython inside your own
 programs, giving you the ability to work with your data interactively after
 automatic processing has been completed.
 See sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:embed}

\end_inset 

 for more.
\layout Itemize

Use the Python profiler.
 When dealing with performance issues, the 
\family typewriter 
@run
\family default 
 command with a 
\family typewriter 
-p
\family default 
 option allows you to run complete programs under the control of the Python
 profiler.
 The 
\family typewriter 
@prun
\family default 
 command does a similar job for single Python expressions (like function
 calls).
\layout Standard

If you have your own favorite tip on using IPython efficiently for a certain
 task (especially things which can't be done in the normal Python interpreter),
 don't hesitate to send it!
\layout Section

Command-line use
\layout Standard

You start IPython with the command:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
$ ipython [options] files
\layout Standard

If invoked with no options, it executes all the files listed in sequence
 and drops you into the interpreter while still acknowledging any options
 you may have set in your ipythonrc file.
 This behavior is different from standard Python, which when called as 
\family typewriter 
python -i
\family default 
 will only execute one file and ignore your configuration setup.
\layout Standard

Please note that some of the configuration options are not available at
 the command line, simply because they are not practical here.
 Look into your ipythonrc configuration file for details on those.
 This file typically installed in the 
\family typewriter 
$HOME/.ipython
\family default 
 directory.
 For Windows users, 
\family typewriter 
$HOME
\family default 
 resolves to 
\family typewriter 
C:
\backslash 

\backslash 
Documents and Settings
\backslash 

\backslash 
YourUserName
\family default 
 in most instances.
 In the rest of this text, we will refer to this directory as 
\family typewriter 
IPYTHONDIR
\family default 
.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:cmd-line-opts}

\end_inset 

Options
\layout Standard

All options can be abbreviated to their shortest non-ambiguous form and
 are case-sensitive.
 One or two dashes can be used.
 Some options have an alternate short form, indicated after a 
\family typewriter 
|
\family default 
.
\layout Standard

Most options can also be set from your ipythonrc configuration file.
 See the provided example for more details on what the options do.
 Options given at the command line override the values set in the ipythonrc
 file.
\layout Standard

All options with a 
\family typewriter 
no|
\family default 
 prepended can be specified in 'no' form (
\family typewriter 
-nooption
\family default 
 instead of 
\family typewriter 
-option
\family default 
) to turn the feature off.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-help
\family default 
\series default 
: print a help message and exit.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-no|automagic
\series default 
:
\family default 
 make magic commands automatic (without needing their first character to
 be 
\family typewriter 
@
\family default 
).
 Type 
\family typewriter 
@magic
\family default 
 at the IPython prompt for more information.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-no|banner
\series default 
:
\family default 
 Print the initial information banner (default on).
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-cache_size|cs\SpecialChar ~
<n>
\series default 
:
\family default 
 size of the output cache (maximum number of entries to hold in memory).
 The default is 1000, you can change it permanently in your config file.
 Setting it to 0 completely disables the caching system, and the minimum
 value accepted is 20 (if you provide a value less than 20, it is reset
 to 0 and a warning is issued) This limit is defined because otherwise you'll
 spend more time re-flushing a too small cache than working.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-classic|cl
\series default 
:
\family default 
 Gives IPython a similar feel to the classic Python prompt.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-colors|c\SpecialChar ~
<scheme>:
\family default 
\series default 
 Color scheme for prompts and exception reporting.
 Currently implemented: NoColor, Linux and LightBG.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-no|color_info:
\family default 
\series default 
 IPython can display information about objects via a set of functions, and
 optionally can use colors for this, syntax highlighting source code and
 various other elements.
 However, because this information is passed through a pager (like 'less')
 and many pagers get confused with color codes, this option is off by default.
 You can test it and turn it on permanently in your ipythonrc file if it
 works for you.
 As a reference, the 'less' pager supplied with Mandrake 8.2 works ok, but
 that in RedHat 7.2 doesn't.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

\SpecialChar ~
 Test it and turn it on permanently if it works with your system.
 The magic function @
\family typewriter 
color_info
\family default 
 allows you to toggle this interactively for testing.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-no|debug
\family default 
\series default 
: Show information about the loading process.
 Very useful to pin down problems with your configuration files or to get
 details about session restores.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-no|deep_reload
\series default 
:
\family default 
 IPython can use the 
\family typewriter 
deep_reload
\family default 
 module which reloads changes in modules recursively (it replaces the 
\family typewriter 
reload()
\family default 
 function, so you don't need to change anything to use it).
 
\family typewriter 
deep_reload()
\family default 
 forces a full reload of modules whose code may have changed, which the
 default 
\family typewriter 
reload()
\family default 
 function does not.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

\SpecialChar ~
 When deep_reload is off, IPython will use the normal 
\family typewriter 
reload()
\family default 
, but deep_reload will still be available as 
\family typewriter 
dreload()
\family default 
.
 This feature is off by default [which means that you have both normal 
\family typewriter 
reload()
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
dreload()
\family default 
].
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-editor\SpecialChar ~
<name>
\family default 
\series default 
: Which editor to use with the 
\family typewriter 
@edit
\family default 
 command.
 By default, IPython will honor your 
\family typewriter 
EDITOR
\family default 
 environment variable (if not set, vi is the Unix default and notepad the
 Windows one).
 Since this editor is invoked on the fly by IPython and is meant for editing
 small code snippets, you may want to use a small, lightweight editor here
 (in case your default 
\family typewriter 
EDITOR
\family default 
 is something like Emacs).
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-ipythondir\SpecialChar ~
<name>
\series default 
:
\family default 
 name of your IPython configuration directory 
\family typewriter 
IPYTHONDIR
\family default 
.
 This can also be specified through the environment variable 
\family typewriter 
IPYTHONDIR
\family default 
.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-log|l
\family default 
\series default 
: generate a log file of all input.
 Defaults to 
\family typewriter 
$IPYTHONDIR/log
\family default 
.
 You can use this to later restore a session by loading your logfile as
 a file to be executed with option 
\family typewriter 
-logplay
\family default 
 (see below).
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-logfile|lf\SpecialChar ~
<name>
\series default 
: 
\family default 
specify the name of your logfile.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-logplay|lp\SpecialChar ~
<name>
\series default 
:
\family default 
 you can replay a previous log.
 For restoring a session as close as possible to the state you left it in,
 use this option (don't just run the logfile).
 With 
\family typewriter 
-logplay
\family default 
, IPython will try to reconstruct the previous working environment in full,
 not just execute the commands in the logfile.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

\SpecialChar ~
 When a session is restored, logging is automatically turned on again with
 the name of the logfile it was invoked with (it is read from the log header).
 So once you've turned logging on for a session, you can quit IPython and
 reload it as many times as you want and it will continue to log its history
 and restore from the beginning every time.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

\SpecialChar ~
 Caveats: there are limitations in this option.
 The history variables 
\family typewriter 
_i*
\family default 
,
\family typewriter 
_*
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
_dh
\family default 
 don't get restored properly.
 In the future we will try to implement full session saving by writing and
 retrieving a 'snapshot' of the memory state of IPython.
 But our first attempts failed because of inherent limitations of Python's
 Pickle module, so this may have to wait.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-no|messages
\series default 
:
\family default 
 Print messages which IPython collects about its startup process (default
 on).
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-no|pdb
\family default 
\series default 
: Automatically call the pdb debugger after every uncaught exception.
 If you are used to debugging using pdb, this puts you automatically inside
 of it after any call (either in IPython or in code called by it) which
 triggers an exception which goes uncaught.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-no|pprint
\series default 
:
\family default 
 ipython can optionally use the pprint (pretty printer) module for displaying
 results.
 pprint tends to give a nicer display of nested data structures.
 If you like it, you can turn it on permanently in your config file (default
 off).
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-profile|p <name>
\series default 
:
\family default 
 assume that your config file is 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc-<name>
\family default 
 (looks in current dir first, then in 
\family typewriter 
IPYTHONDIR
\family default 
).
 This is a quick way to keep and load multiple config files for different
 tasks, especially if you use the include option of config files.
 You can keep a basic 
\family typewriter 
IPYTHONDIR/ipythonrc
\family default 
 file and then have other 'profiles' which include this one and load extra
 things for particular tasks.
 For example:
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
 
\family default 
1.

\family typewriter 
 $HOME/.ipython/ipythonrc
\family default 
 : load basic things you always want.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
 
\family default 
2.

\family typewriter 
 $HOME/.ipython/ipythonrc-math
\family default 
 : load (1) and basic math-related modules.
 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
 
\family default 
3.

\family typewriter 
 $HOME/.ipython/ipythonrc-numeric
\family default 
 : load (1) and Numeric and plotting modules.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

\SpecialChar ~
 Since it is possible to create an endless loop by having circular file
 inclusions, IPython will stop if it reaches 15 recursive inclusions.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-prompt_in1|pi1\SpecialChar ~
<string>:
\family default 
\series default 
 Specify the string used for input prompts.
 Note that if you are using numbered prompts, the number is represented
 with a '
\family typewriter 
%n
\family default 
' in the string.
 Don't forget to quote strings with spaces embedded in them.
 Default: '
\family typewriter 
In\SpecialChar ~
[%n]:
\family default 
'
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-prompt_in2|pi2\SpecialChar ~
<string>:
\family default 
\series default 
 Similar to the previous option, but used for the continuation prompts.
 In this case, the number (
\family typewriter 
%n
\family default 
) is replaced by as many dots as there are digits in the number (so you
 can have your continuation prompt aligned with your input prompt).
 Default: '
\family typewriter 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
.%n.:
\family default 
' (note three spaces at the start for alignment with '
\family typewriter 
In\SpecialChar ~
[%n]
\family default 
')
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-prompt_out|po\SpecialChar ~
<string>:
\family default 
\series default 
 String used for output prompts, also uses numbers like 
\family typewriter 
prompt_in1
\family default 
.
 Default: '
\family typewriter 
Out[%n]:
\family default 
'
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-quick
\family default 
\series default 
: start in bare bones mode (no config file loaded).
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-rcfile\SpecialChar ~
<name>
\series default 
:
\family default 
 name of your IPython resource configuration file.
 Normally IPython loads ipythonrc (from current directory) or
\family typewriter 
 IPYTHONDIR/ipythonrc
\family default 
.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

\SpecialChar ~
 If the loading of your config file fails, IPython starts with a bare bones
 configuration (no modules loaded at all).
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-no|readline
\family default 
\series default 
: use the readline library, which is needed to support name completion and
 command history, among other things.
 It is enabled by default, but may cause problems for users of X/Emacs in
 Python comint or shell buffers.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

\SpecialChar ~
 Note that X/Emacs 'eterm' buffers (opened with 
\family typewriter 
M-x\SpecialChar ~
term
\family default 
) support IPython's readline and syntax coloring fine, only 'emacs' (
\family typewriter 
M-x\SpecialChar ~
shell
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
C-c\SpecialChar ~
!
\family default 
) buffers do not.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-screen_length|sl\SpecialChar ~
<n>
\series default 
:
\family default 
 number of lines of your screen.
 This is used to control printing of very long strings.
 Strings longer than this number of lines will be sent through a pager instead
 of directly printed.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

\SpecialChar ~
 The default value for this is 0, which means IPython will auto-detect your
 screen size every time it needs to print certain potentially long strings
 (this doesn't change the behavior of the 'print' keyword, it's only triggered
 internally).
 If for some reason this isn't working well (it needs curses support), specify
 it yourself.
 Otherwise don't change the default.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-separate_in|si\SpecialChar ~
<string>
\series default 
:
\family default 
 separator before input prompts.
 Default: '
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
n
\family default 
'
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-separate_out|so\SpecialChar ~
<string>
\family default 
\series default 
: separator before output prompts.
 Default: nothing.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-separate_out2|so2\SpecialChar ~
<string>
\series default 
:
\family default 
 separator after output prompts.
 Default: nothing.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

\SpecialChar ~
 For these three options, use the value 0 to specify no separator.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-nosep
\series default 
: 
\family default 
shorthand for 
\family typewriter 
'-SeparateIn 0 -SeparateOut 0 -SeparateOut2 0'
\family default 
.
 Simply removes all input/output separators.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-upgrade
\family default 
\series default 
: allows you to upgrade your 
\family typewriter 
IPYTHONDIR
\family default 
 configuration when you install a new version of IPython.
 Since new versions may include new command line options or example files,
 this copies updated ipythonrc-type files.
 However, it backs up (with a 
\family typewriter 
.old
\family default 
 extension) all files which it overwrites so that you can merge back any
 customizations you might have in your personal files.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-Version
\series default 
:
\family default 
 print version information and exit.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
-xmode <modename>
\series default 
:
\family default 
 Mode for exception reporting.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

\SpecialChar ~
 Valid modes: Plain, Context and Verbose.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

\SpecialChar ~
 Plain: similar to python's normal traceback printing.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

\SpecialChar ~
 Context: prints 5 lines of context source code around each line in the
 traceback.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

\SpecialChar ~
 Verbose: similar to Context, but additionally prints the variables currently
 visible where the exception happened (shortening their strings if too long).
 This can potentially be very slow, if you happen to have a huge data structure
 whose string representation is complex to compute.
 Your computer may appear to freeze for a while with cpu usage at 100%.
 If this occurs, you can cancel the traceback with Ctrl-C (maybe hitting
 it more than once).
\layout Section

Interactive use
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Warning
\series default 
: IPython relies on the existence of a global variable called 
\family typewriter 
__IP
\family default 
 which controls the shell itself.
 If you redefine 
\family typewriter 
__IP
\family default 
 to anything, bizarre behavior will quickly occur.
\layout Standard

Other than the above warning, IPython is meant to work as a drop-in replacement
 for the standard interactive interpreter.
 As such, any code which is valid python should execute normally under IPython
 (cases where this is not true should be reported as bugs).
 It does, however, offer many features which are not available at a standard
 python prompt.
 What follows is a list of these.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:magic}

\end_inset 

Magic command system
\layout Standard

IPython will treat any line whose first character is a 
\family typewriter 
@
\family default 
 as a special call to a 'magic' function.
 These allow you to control the behavior of IPython itself, plus a lot of
 system-type features.
 They are all prefixed with a 
\family typewriter 
@
\family default 
 character, but parameters are given without parentheses or quotes.
\layout Standard

Example: typing 
\family typewriter 
'@cd mydir'
\family default 
 (without the quotes) changes you working directory to 
\family typewriter 
'mydir'
\family default 
, if it exists.
\layout Standard

If you have 'automagic' enabled (in your 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc
\family default 
 file, via the command line option 
\family typewriter 
-automagic 
\family default 
or with the 
\family typewriter 
@automagic
\family default 
 function), you don't need to type in the 
\family typewriter 
@
\family default 
 explicitly.
 IPython will scan its internal list of magic functions and call one if
 it exists.
 With automagic on you can then just type '
\family typewriter 
cd mydir
\family default 
' to go to directory '
\family typewriter 
mydir
\family default 
'.
 The automagic system has the lowest possible precedence in name searches,
 so defining an identifier with the same name as an existing magic function
 will shadow it for automagic use.
 You can still access the shadowed magic function by explicitly using the
 
\family typewriter 
@
\family default 
 character at the beginning of the line.
\layout Standard

An example (with automagic on) should clarify all this:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
In [1]: cd ipython # @cd is called by automagic
\newline 
/usr/local/home/fperez/ipython
\newline 
In [2]: cd=1 # now cd is just a variable
\newline 
In [3]: cd ..
 # and doesn't work as a function anymore 
\newline 
------------------------------------------------------------
\newline 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 File "<console>", line 1
\newline 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 cd ..
\newline 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 ^
\newline 
SyntaxError: invalid syntax
\newline 
\SpecialChar ~

\newline 
In [4]: @cd ..

\family default 
 
\family typewriter 
# but @cd always works
\family default 

\newline 

\family typewriter 
/usr/local/home/fperez
\newline 
In [5]: del cd # if you remove the cd variable
\newline 
In [6]: cd ipython # automagic can work again
\newline 
/usr/local/home/fperez/ipython
\layout Standard

You can define your own magic functions to extend the system.
 The following is a snippet of code which shows how to do it.
 It is provided as file 
\family typewriter 
example-magic.py
\family default 
 in your ipython configuration directory, typically 
\family typewriter 
$HOME/.ipython/:
\layout Standard


\begin_inset Include \verbatiminput{../IPython/UserConfig/example-magic.py}
preview false

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

You can also define your own aliased names for magic functions.
 In your 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc
\family default 
 file, placing a line like:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
execute __IP.magic_cl = __IP.magic_clear
\layout Standard

will define 
\family typewriter 
@cl
\family default 
 as a new name for 
\family typewriter 
@clear
\family default 
.
\layout Standard

Type 
\family typewriter 
@magic
\family default 
 for more information, including a list of all available magic functions
 at any time and their docstrings.
 You can also type 
\family typewriter 
@magic_function_name?
\family default 
 (see sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:dyn-object-info}

\end_inset 

 for information on the 
\family typewriter 
'?'
\family default 
 system) to get information about any particular magic function you are
 interested in.
\layout Subsubsection

Magic commands
\layout Standard

The rest of this section is automatically generated for each release from
 the docstrings in the IPython code.
 Therefore the formatting is somewhat minimal, but this method has the advantage
 of having information always in sync with the code.
\layout Standard

A list of all the magic commands available in IPython's 
\emph on 
default
\emph default 
 installation follows.
 This is similar to what you'll see by simply typing 
\family typewriter 
@magic
\family default 
 at the prompt, but that will also give you information about magic commands
 you may have added as part of your personal customizations.
\layout Standard


\begin_inset Include \input{magic.tex}
preview false

\end_inset 


\layout Subsection

Access to the standard Python help
\layout Standard

As of Python 2.1, a help system is available with access to object docstrings
 and the Python manuals.
 Simply type 
\family typewriter 
'help'
\family default 
 (no quotes) to access it.
 You can also type 
\family typewriter 
help(object)
\family default 
 to obtain information about a given object, and 
\family typewriter 
help('keyword')
\family default 
 for information on a keyword.
 As noted in sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:help-access}

\end_inset 

, you need to properly configure your environment variable 
\family typewriter 
PYTHONDOCS
\family default 
 for this feature to work correctly.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:dyn-object-info}

\end_inset 

Dynamic object information
\layout Standard

Typing 
\family typewriter 
?word
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
word?
\family default 
 prints detailed information about an object.
 If certain strings in the object are too long (docstrings, code, etc.) they
 get snipped in the center for brevity.
 This system gives access variable types and values, full source code for
 any object (if available), function prototypes and other useful information.
\layout Standard

Typing 
\family typewriter 
??word
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
word??
\family default 
 gives access to the full information without snipping long strings.
 Long strings are sent to the screen through the 
\family typewriter 
less
\family default 
 pager if longer than the screen and printed otherwise.
 On systems lacking the 
\family typewriter 
less
\family default 
 command, IPython uses a very basic internal pager.
\layout Standard

The following magic functions are particularly useful for gathering information
 about your working environment.
 You can get more details by typing 
\family typewriter 
@magic
\family default 
 or querying them individually (use 
\family typewriter 
@function_name?
\family default 
 with or without the 
\family typewriter 
@
\family default 
), this is just a summary:
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
@pdoc\SpecialChar ~
<object>
\family default 
\series default 
: Print (or run through a pager if too long) the docstring for an object.
 If the given object is a class, it will print both the class and the constructo
r docstrings.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
@pdef\SpecialChar ~
<object>
\family default 
\series default 
: Print the definition header for any callable object.
 If the object is a class, print the constructor information.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
@psource\SpecialChar ~
<object>
\family default 
\series default 
: Print (or run through a pager if too long) the source code for an object.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
@pfile\SpecialChar ~
<object>
\family default 
\series default 
: Show the entire source file where an object was defined via a pager, opening
 it at the line where the object definition begins.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
@who/@whos
\family default 
\series default 
: These functions give information about identifiers you have defined interactiv
ely (not things you loaded or defined in your configuration files).
 
\family typewriter 
@who
\family default 
 just prints a list of identifiers and 
\family typewriter 
@whos
\family default 
 prints a table with some basic details about each identifier.
\layout Standard

Note that the dynamic object information functions (
\family typewriter 
?/??, @pdoc, @pfile, @pdef, @psource
\family default 
) give you access to documentation even on things which are not really defined
 as separate identifiers.
 Try for example typing 
\family typewriter 
{}.get?
\family default 
 or after doing 
\family typewriter 
import os
\family default 
, type 
\family typewriter 
os.path.abspath??
\family default 
.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:readline}

\end_inset 

Readline-based features
\layout Standard

These features require the GNU readline library, so they won't work if your
 Python lacks readline support (as is the case under Windows).
 We will first describe the default behavior IPython uses, and then how
 to change it to suit your preferences.
\layout Subsubsection

Command line completion
\layout Standard

At any time, hitting TAB will complete any available python commands or
 variable names, and show you a list of the possible completions if there's
 no unambiguous one.
 It will also complete filenames in the current directory if no python names
 match what you've typed so far.
\layout Subsubsection

Search command history
\layout Standard

IPython provides two ways for searching through previous input and thus
 reduce the need for repetitive typing:
\layout Enumerate

Start typing, and then use 
\family typewriter 
Ctrl-p
\family default 
 (previous,up) and 
\family typewriter 
Ctrl-n
\family default 
 (next,down) to search through only the history items that match what you've
 typed so far.
 If you use 
\family typewriter 
Ctrl-p/Ctrl-n
\family default 
 at a blank prompt, they just behave like normal arrow keys.
\layout Enumerate

Hit 
\family typewriter 
Ctrl-r
\family default 
: opens a search prompt.
 Begin typing and the system searches your history for lines that contain
 what you've typed so far, completing as much as it can.
\layout Subsubsection

Persistent command history across sessions
\layout Standard

IPython will save your input history when it leaves and reload it next time
 you restart it.
\layout Subsubsection

Customizing readline behavior
\layout Standard

All these features are based on the GNU readline library, which has an extremely
 customizable interface.
 Normally, readline is configured via a file which defines the behavior
 of the library; the details of the syntax for this can be found in the
 readline documentation available with your system or on the Internet.
 IPython doesn't read this file (if it exists) directly, but it does support
 passing to readline valid options via a simple interface.
 In brief, you can customize readline by setting the following options in
 your 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc
\family default 
 configuration file (note that these options can 
\emph on 
not
\emph default 
 be specified at the command line):
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
readline_parse_and_bind:
\family default 
\series default 
 this option can appear as many times as you want, each time defining a
 string to be executed via a 
\family typewriter 
readline.parse_and_bind()
\family default 
 command.
 The syntax for valid commands of this kind can be found by reading the
 documentation for the GNU readline library, as these commands are of the
 kind which readline accepts in its configuration file.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
readline_remove_delims:
\family default 
\series default 
 a string of characters to be removed from the default word-delimiters list
 used by readline, so that completions may be performed on strings which
 contain them.
 Do not change the default value unless you know what you're doing.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
readline_omit__names
\family default 
\series default 
: when tab-completion is enabled, hitting 
\family typewriter 
<tab>
\family default 
 after a '
\family typewriter 
.
\family default 
' in a name will complete all attributes of an object, including all the
 special methods whose names include double underscores (like 
\family typewriter 
__getitem__
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
__class__
\family default 
).
 If you'd rather not see these names by default, you can set this option
 to 1.
 Note that even when this option is set, you can still see those names by
 explicitly typing a 
\family typewriter 
_
\family default 
 after the period and hitting 
\family typewriter 
<tab>
\family default 
: '
\family typewriter 
name._<tab>
\family default 
' will always complete attribute names starting with '
\family typewriter 
_
\family default 
'.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

\SpecialChar ~
 This option is off by default so that new users see all attributes of any
 objects they are dealing with.
\layout Standard

You will find the default values along with a corresponding detailed explanation
 in your 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc
\family default 
 file.
\layout Subsection

Session logging and restoring
\layout Standard

You can log all input from a session either by starting IPython with the
 command line switches 
\family typewriter 
-log
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
-logfile 
\family default 
(see sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:cmd-line-opts}

\end_inset 

)or by activating the logging at any moment with the magic function 
\family typewriter 
@logstart
\family default 
.
 
\layout Standard

Log files can later be reloaded with the 
\family typewriter 
-logplay
\family default 
 option and IPython will attempt to 'replay' the log by executing all the
 lines in it, thus restoring the state of a previous session.
 This feature is not quite perfect, but can still be useful in many cases.
\layout Standard

The log files can also be used as a way to have a permanent record of any
 code you wrote while experimenting.
 Log files are regular text files which you can later open in your favorite
 text editor to extract code or to 'clean them up' before using them to
 replay a session.
\layout Standard

The 
\family typewriter 
@logstart
\family default 
 function for activating logging in mid-session is used as follows:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
@logstart [log_name [log_mode]]
\layout Standard

If no name is given, it defaults to a file named 
\family typewriter 
'log'
\family default 
 in your IPYTHONDIR directory, in 
\family typewriter 
'rotate'
\family default 
 mode (see below).
\layout Standard

'
\family typewriter 
@logstart name
\family default 
' saves to file 
\family typewriter 
'name'
\family default 
 in 
\family typewriter 
'backup'
\family default 
 mode.
 It saves your history up to that point and then continues logging.
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
@logstart
\family default 
 takes a second optional parameter: logging mode.
 This can be one of (note that the modes are given unquoted):
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
over
\family default 
: overwrite existing 
\family typewriter 
log_name
\family default 
.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
backup
\family default 
: rename (if exists) to 
\family typewriter 
log_name~
\family default 
 and start 
\family typewriter 
log_name
\family default 
.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
append
\family default 
: well, that says it.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
rotate
\family default 
: create rotating logs 
\family typewriter 
log_name
\family default 
.
\family typewriter 
1~
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
log_name.2~
\family default 
, etc.
\layout Standard

The 
\family typewriter 
@logoff
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
@logon
\family default 
 functions allow you to temporarily stop and resume logging to a file which
 had previously been started with 
\family typewriter 
@logstart
\family default 
.
 They will fail (with an explanation) if you try to use them before logging
 has been started.
\layout Subsection

System shell access
\layout Standard

Any input line beginning with a 
\family typewriter 
!
\family default 
 character is passed verbatim (minus the 
\family typewriter 
!
\family default 
, of course) to the underlying operating system.
 For example, typing 
\family typewriter 
!ls
\family default 
 will run 
\family typewriter 
'ls'
\family default 
 in the current directory.
\layout Subsection

System command aliases
\layout Standard

The 
\family typewriter 
@alias
\family default 
 magic function and the 
\family typewriter 
alias
\family default 
 option in the 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc
\family default 
 configuration file allow you to define magic functions which are in fact
 system shell commands.
 These aliases can have parameters.
 
\layout Standard

'
\family typewriter 
@alias alias_name cmd
\family default 
' defines '
\family typewriter 
alias_name
\family default 
' as an alias for '
\family typewriter 
cmd
\family default 
' 
\layout Standard

Then, typing '
\family typewriter 
@alias_name params
\family default 
' will execute the system command '
\family typewriter 
cmd params
\family default 
' (from your underlying operating system).
 
\layout Standard

You can also define aliases with parameters using 
\family typewriter 
%s
\family default 
 specifiers (one per parameter).
 The following example defines the 
\family typewriter 
@parts
\family default 
 function as an alias to the command '
\family typewriter 
echo first %s second %s
\family default 
' where each 
\family typewriter 
%s
\family default 
 will be replaced by a positional parameter to the call to 
\family typewriter 
@parts:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
In [1]: alias parts echo first %s second %s
\newline 
In [2]: @parts A B
\newline 
first A second B 
\newline 
In [3]: @parts A 
\newline 
Incorrect number of arguments: 2 expected.
 
\newline 
parts is an alias to: 'echo first %s second %s' 
\layout Standard

If called with no parameters, 
\family typewriter 
@alias
\family default 
 prints the table of currently defined aliases.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:dreload}

\end_inset 

Recursive reload
\layout Standard

The 
\family typewriter 
@dreload
\family default 
 command does a recursive reload of a module: changes made to the module
 since you imported will actually be available without having to exit.
\layout Subsection

Verbose and colored exception traceback printouts
\layout Standard

IPython provides the option to see very detailed exception tracebacks, which
 can be especially useful when debugging large programs.
 You can run any Python file with the 
\family typewriter 
@run
\family default 
 function to benefit from these detailed tracebacks.
 Furthermore, both normal and verbose tracebacks can be colored (if your
 terminal supports it) which makes them much easier to parse visually.
\layout Standard

See the magic 
\family typewriter 
xmode
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
colors
\family default 
 functions for details (just type 
\family typewriter 
@magic
\family default 
).
\layout Standard

These features are basically a terminal version of Ka-Ping Yee's 
\family typewriter 
cgitb
\family default 
 module, now part of the standard Python library.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:cache_input}

\end_inset 

Input caching system
\layout Standard

IPython offers numbered prompts (In/Out) with input and output caching.
 All input is saved and can be retrieved as variables (besides the usual
 arrow key recall).
\layout Standard

The following GLOBAL variables always exist (so don't overwrite them!):
 
\family typewriter 
_i
\family default 
: stores previous input.
 
\family typewriter 
_ii
\family default 
: next previous.
 
\family typewriter 
_iii
\family default 
: next-next previous.
 
\family typewriter 
_ih
\family default 
 : a list of all input 
\family typewriter 
_ih[n]
\family default 
 is the input from line 
\family typewriter 
n
\family default 
 and this list is aliased to the global variable 
\family typewriter 
In
\family default 
.
 If you overwrite 
\family typewriter 
In
\family default 
 with a variable of your own, you can remake the assignment to the internal
 list with a simple 
\family typewriter 
'In=_ih'
\family default 
.
\layout Standard

Additionally, global variables named 
\family typewriter 
_i<n>
\family default 
 are dynamically created (
\family typewriter 
<n>
\family default 
 being the prompt counter), such that 
\newline 

\family typewriter 
_i<n> == _ih[<n>] == In[<n>].
\layout Standard

For example, what you typed at prompt 14 is available as 
\family typewriter 
_i14,
\family default 
 
\family typewriter 
_ih[14]
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
In[14]
\family default 
.
\layout Standard

This allows you to easily cut and paste multi line interactive prompts by
 printing them out: they print like a clean string, without prompt characters.
 You can also manipulate them like regular variables (they are strings),
 modify or exec them (typing 
\family typewriter 
'exec _i9'
\family default 
 will re-execute the contents of input prompt 9, '
\family typewriter 
exec In[9:14]+In[18]
\family default 
' will re-execute lines 9 through 13 and line 18).
\layout Standard

You can also re-execute multiple lines of input easily by using the magic
 
\family typewriter 
@macro
\family default 
 function (which automates the process and allows re-execution without having
 to type '
\family typewriter 
exec
\family default 
' every time).
 The macro system also allows you to re-execute previous lines which include
 magic function calls (which require special processing).
 Type 
\family typewriter 
@macro?
\family default 
 or see sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:magic}

\end_inset 

 for more details on the macro system.
\layout Standard

A history function 
\family typewriter 
@hist
\family default 
 allows you to see any part of your input history by printing a range of
 the 
\family typewriter 
_i
\family default 
 variables.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:cache_output}

\end_inset 

Output caching system
\layout Standard

For output that is returned from actions, a system similar to the input
 cache exists but using 
\family typewriter 
_
\family default 
 instead of 
\family typewriter 
_i
\family default 
.
 Only actions that produce a result (NOT assignments, for example) are cached.
 If you are familiar with Mathematica, IPython's 
\family typewriter 
_
\family default 
 variables behave exactly like Mathematica's 
\family typewriter 
%
\family default 
 variables.
\layout Standard

The following GLOBAL variables always exist (so don't overwrite them!):
 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
_
\family default 
\series default 
 (a 
\emph on 
single
\emph default 
 underscore) : stores previous output, like Python's default interpreter.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
__
\family default 
\series default 
 (two underscores): next previous.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
___
\family default 
\series default 
 (three underscores): next-next previous.
\layout Standard

Additionally, global variables named 
\family typewriter 
_<n> 
\family default 
are dynamically created (
\family typewriter 
<n>
\family default 
 being the prompt counter), such that the result of output 
\family typewriter 
<n>
\family default 
 is always available as 
\family typewriter 
_<n>
\family default 
 (don't use the angle brackets, just the number, e.g.
 
\family typewriter 
_21
\family default 
).
\layout Standard

These global variables are all stored in a global dictionary (not a list,
 since it only has entries for lines which returned a result) available
 under the names 
\family typewriter 
_oh
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
Out
\family default 
 (similar to 
\family typewriter 
_ih
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
In
\family default 
).
 So the output from line 12 can be obtained as 
\family typewriter 
_12
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
Out[12]
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
_oh[12]
\family default 
.
 If you accidentally overwrite the 
\family typewriter 
Out
\family default 
 variable you can recover it by typing 
\family typewriter 
'Out=_oh
\family default 
' at the prompt.
\layout Standard

This system obviously can potentially put heavy memory demands on your system,
 since it prevents Python's garbage collector from removing any previously
 computed results.
 You can control how many results are kept in memory with the option (at
 the command line or in your 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc
\family default 
 file) 
\family typewriter 
cache_size
\family default 
.
 If you set it to 0, the whole system is completely disabled and the prompts
 revert to the classic 
\family typewriter 
'>>>'
\family default 
 of normal Python.
\layout Subsection

Directory history
\layout Standard

Your history of visited directories is kept in the global list 
\family typewriter 
_dh
\family default 
, and the magic 
\family typewriter 
@cd
\family default 
 command can be used to go to any entry in that list.
 The 
\family typewriter 
@dhist
\family default 
 command allows you to view this history.
\layout Subsection

Automatic parentheses and quotes
\layout Standard

These features were adapted from Nathan Gray's LazyPython.
 They are meant to allow less typing for common situations.
\layout Subsubsection

Automatic parentheses
\layout Standard

Callable objects (i.e.
 functions, methods, etc) can be invoked like this (notice the commas between
 the arguments):
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
>>> callable_ob arg1, arg2, arg3 
\layout Standard

and the input will be translated to this: 
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
--> callable_ob(arg1, arg2, arg3) 
\layout Standard

You can force automatic parentheses by using '/' as the first character
 of a line.
 For example:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
>>> /globals # becomes 'globals()' 
\layout Standard

Note that the '/' MUST be the first character on the line! This won't work:
 
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
>>> print /globals # syntax error
\layout Standard

In most cases the automatic algorithm should work, so you should rarely
 need to explicitly invoke /.
 One notable exception is if you are trying to call a function with a list
 of tuples as arguments (the parenthesis will confuse IPython): 
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
In [1]: zip (1,2,3),(4,5,6) # won't work 
\layout Standard

but this will work: 
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
In [2]: /zip (1,2,3),(4,5,6)
\newline 
------> zip ((1,2,3),(4,5,6)) 
\newline 
Out[2]= [(1, 4), (2, 5), (3, 6)] 
\layout Subsubsection

Automatic quoting 
\layout Standard

You can force automatic quoting of a function's arguments by using ',' as
 the first character of a line.
 For example: 
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
>>> ,my_function /home/me # becomes my_function("/home/me") 
\layout Standard

Note that the ',' MUST be the first character on the line! This won't work:
 
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
>>> x = ,my_function /home/me # syntax error
\layout Subsubsection

Notes on usage of these two features
\layout Standard

1.
 IPython tells you that it has altered your command line by displaying the
 new command line preceded by 
\family typewriter 
-->
\family default 
.
 e.g.: 
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
In [18]: callable list
\newline 
-------> callable (list) 
\layout Standard

2.
 Whitespace is more important than usual (even for Python!) Arguments to
 auto-quote functions cannot have embedded whitespace.
 
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
In [21]: ,string.split a b
\newline 
-------> string.split ("a", "b")
\newline 
Out[21]= ['a'] # probably not what you wanted
\newline 
In [22]: string.split 'a b'
\newline 
-------> string.split ('a b') 
\newline 
Out[22]= ['a', 'b'] # quote explicitly and it works.
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:customization}

\end_inset 

Customization
\layout Standard

As we've already mentioned, IPython reads a configuration file which can
 be specified at the command line (
\family typewriter 
-rcfile
\family default 
) or which by default is assumed to be called 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc
\family default 
.
 Such a file is looked for in the current directory where IPython is started
 and then in your 
\family typewriter 
IPYTHONDIR
\family default 
, which allows you to have local configuration files for specific projects.
 In this section we will call these types of configuration files simply
 rcfiles (short for resource configuration file).
\layout Standard

The syntax of an rcfile is one of key-value pairs separated by whitespace,
 one per line.
 Lines beginning with a 
\family typewriter 
#
\family default 
 are ignored as comments, but comments can 
\series bold 
not
\series default 
 be put on lines with data (the parser is fairly primitive).
 Note that these are not python files, and this is deliberate, because it
 allows us to do some things which would be quite tricky to implement if
 they were normal python files.
\layout Standard

First, an rcfile can contain permanent default values for almost all command
 line options (except things like 
\family typewriter 
-help
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
-Version
\family default 
).
 However, values you explicitly specify at the command line override the
 values defined in the rcfile.
\layout Standard

Besides command line option values, the rcfile can specify values for certain
 extra special options which are not available at the command line.
 These options are briefly described below.
 
\layout Standard

Each of these options may appear as many times as you need it in the file.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
include\SpecialChar ~
<file1>\SpecialChar ~
<file2>\SpecialChar ~
...
\family default 
\series default 
: you can name 
\emph on 
other 
\emph default 
rcfiles you want to recursively load up to 15 levels (don't use the 
\family typewriter 
<>
\family default 
 brackets in your names!).
 This feature allows you to define a 'base' rcfile with general options
 and special-purpose files which can be loaded only when needed with particular
 configuration options.
 To make this more convenient, IPython accepts the 
\family typewriter 
-profile <name>
\family default 
 option (abbreviates to 
\family typewriter 
-p <name
\family default 
>)
\family typewriter 
 which
\family default 
 tells it to look for an rcfile named 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc-<name>
\family default 
.
 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
import_mod\SpecialChar ~
<mod1>\SpecialChar ~
<mod2>\SpecialChar ~
...
\family default 
\series default 
: import modules with '
\family typewriter 
import
\family default 
 
\family typewriter 
<mod1>,<mod2>,...
\family default 
' 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
import_some\SpecialChar ~
<mod>\SpecialChar ~
<f1>\SpecialChar ~
<f2>\SpecialChar ~
...
\family default 
\series default 
: import functions with '
\family typewriter 
from <mod> import
\family default 
 
\family typewriter 
<f1>,<f2>,...
\family default 
' 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
import_all\SpecialChar ~
<mod1>\SpecialChar ~
<mod2>\SpecialChar ~
...
\family default 
\series default 
: for each module listed import functions with '
\family typewriter 
from <mod> import *
\family default 
' 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
execute\SpecialChar ~
<python\SpecialChar ~
code>
\family default 
\series default 
: give any single-line python code to be executed.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
execfile\SpecialChar ~
<filename>
\family default 
\series default 
: execute the python file given with an '
\family typewriter 
execfile(filename)
\family default 
' command.
 Username expansion is performed on the given names.
 So if you need any amount of extra fancy customization that won't fit in
 any of the above 'canned' options, you can just put it in a separate python
 file and execute it.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
alias\SpecialChar ~
<alias_def>
\family default 
\series default 
: this is equivalent to calling '
\family typewriter 
@alias\SpecialChar ~
<alias_def>
\family default 
' at the IPython command line.
 This way, from within IPython you can do common system tasks without having
 to exit it or use the 
\family typewriter 
!
\family default 
 escape.
 IPython isn't meant to be a shell replacement, but it is often very useful
 to be able to do things with files while testing code.
 This gives you the flexibility to have within IPython any aliases you may
 be used to under your normal system shell.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:ipytonrc-sample}

\end_inset 

Sample 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc
\family default 
 file
\layout Standard

The default rcfile, called 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc
\family default 
 and supplied in your 
\family typewriter 
IPYTHONDIR 
\family default 
directory contains lots of comments on all of these options.
 We reproduce it here for reference:
\layout Standard


\begin_inset Include \verbatiminput{../IPython/UserConfig/ipythonrc.py}
preview false

\end_inset 


\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:profiles}

\end_inset 

IPython profiles
\layout Standard

As we already mentioned, IPython supports the 
\family typewriter 
-profile
\family default 
 command-line option (see sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:cmd-line-opts}

\end_inset 

).
 A profile is nothing more than a particular configuration file like your
 basic 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc
\family default 
 one, but with particular customizations for a specific purpose.
 When you start IPython with '
\family typewriter 
ipython -profile <name>
\family default 
', it assumes that in your 
\family typewriter 
IPYTHONDIR
\family default 
 there is a file called 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc-<name>
\family default 
, and loads it instead of the normal 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc
\family default 
.
\layout Standard

This system allows you to maintain multiple configurations which load modules,
 set options, define functions, etc.
 suitable for different tasks and activate them in a very simple manner.
 In order to avoid having to repeat all of your basic options (common things
 that don't change such as your color preferences, for example), any profile
 can include another configuration file.
 The most common way to use profiles is then to have each one include your
 basic 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc
\family default 
 file as a starting point, and then add further customizations.
\layout Standard

In sections 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:syntax-extensions}

\end_inset 

 and 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Gnuplot}

\end_inset 

 we discuss some particular profiles which come as part of the standard
 IPython distribution.
 You may also look in your 
\family typewriter 
IPYTHONDIR
\family default 
 directory, any file whose name begins with 
\family typewriter 
ipythonrc-
\family default 
 is a profile.
 You can use those as examples for further customizations to suit your own
 needs.
\layout Section

Using IPython as your default Python environment.
\layout Standard

Python honors the environment variable 
\family typewriter 
PYTHONSTARTUP 
\family default 
and will execute at startup the file referenced by this variable.
 If you put at the end of this file the following two lines of code:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
import IPython
\newline 
IPython.Shell.IPShell().mainloop(sys_exit=1)
\layout Standard

then IPython will be your working environment anytime you start Python.
 The 
\family typewriter 
sys_exit=1
\family default 
 is needed to have IPython issue a call to 
\family typewriter 
sys.exit()
\family default 
 when it finishes, otherwise you'll be back at the normal Python '
\family typewriter 
>>>
\family default 
' prompt
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

Based on an idea by Holger Krekel.
\end_inset 

.
\layout Standard

This is probably useful to developers who manage multiple Python versions
 and don't want to have correspondingly multiple IPython versions.
 Note that in this mode, there is no way to pass IPython any command-line
 options, as those are trapped first by Python itself.
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:embed}

\end_inset 

Embedding IPython in other programs
\layout Standard

It is possible to start an IPython instance 
\emph on 
inside
\emph default 
 your own Python programs.
 This allows you to evaluate dynamically the state of your code, operate
 with your variables, analyze them, etc.
 Note however that any changes you make to values while in the shell do
 
\emph on 
not
\emph default 
 propagate back to the running code, so it is safe to modify your values
 because you won't break your code in bizarre ways by doing so.
\layout Standard

This feature allows you to easily have a fully functional python environment
 for doing object introspection anywhere in your code with a simple function
 call.
 In some cases a simple print statement is enough, but if you need to do
 more detailed analysis of a code fragment this feature can be very valuable.
\layout Standard

It can also be useful in scientific computing situations where it is common
 to need to do some automatic, computationally intensive part and then stop
 to look at data, plots, etc
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

This functionality was inspired by IDL's combination of the 
\family typewriter 
stop
\family default 
 keyword and the 
\family typewriter 
.continue
\family default 
 executive command, which I have found very useful in the past, and by a
 posting on comp.lang.python by cmkl <cmkleffner@gmx.de> on Dec.
 06/01 concerning similar uses of pyrepl.
\end_inset 

.
 Opening an IPython instance will give you full access to your data and
 functions, and you can resume program execution once you are done with
 the interactive part (perhaps to stop again later, as many times as needed).
\layout Standard

The following code snippet is the bare minimum you need to include in your
 Python programs for this to work (detailed examples follow later):
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
from IPython.Shell import IPythonShellEmbed
\newline 
ipshell = IPythonShellEmbed()
\newline 
ipshell() # this call anywhere in your program will start IPython
\layout Standard

You can run embedded instances even in code which is itself being run at
 the IPython interactive prompt with '
\family typewriter 
@run\SpecialChar ~
<filename>
\family default 
'.
 Since it's easy to get lost as to where you are (in your top-level IPython
 or in your embedded one), it's a good idea in such cases to set the in/out
 prompts to something different for the embedded instances.
 The code examples below illustrate this.
\layout Standard

You can also have multiple IPython instances in your program and open them
 separately, for example with different options for data presentation.
 If you close and open the same instance multiple times, its prompt counters
 simply continue from each execution to the next.
\layout Standard

Please look at the docstrings in the 
\family typewriter 
Shell.py
\family default 
 module for more details on the use of this system.
\layout Standard

The following sample file illustrating how to use the embedding functionality
 is provided in your 
\family typewriter 
IPYTHONDIR
\family default 
 directory as 
\family typewriter 
example-embed.py
\family default 
.
 It should be fairly self-explanatory:
\layout Standard


\begin_inset Include \verbatiminput{../IPython/UserConfig/example-embed.py}
preview false

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Once you understand how the system functions, you can use the following
 code fragments in your programs which are ready for cut and paste (this
 file is also in your 
\family typewriter 
IPYTHONDIR
\family default 
 directory as 
\family typewriter 
example-embed-short.py
\family default 
):
\layout Standard


\begin_inset Include \verbatiminput{../IPython/UserConfig/example-embed-short.py}
preview false

\end_inset 


\layout Section

Using the Python debugger (
\family typewriter 
pdb
\family default 
)
\layout Standard

IPython, if started with the 
\family typewriter 
-pdb
\family default 
 option (or if the option is set in your rc file) can call the Python 
\family typewriter 
pdb
\family default 
 debugger every time your code triggers an uncaught exception
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

Many thanks to Christopher Hart for the request which prompted adding this
 feature to IPython.
\end_inset 

.
 This feature can also be turned on and off at any time with the 
\family typewriter 
@pdb
\family default 
 magic command.
 This can be extremely useful in order to find the origin of subtle bugs,
 because 
\family typewriter 
pdb
\family default 
 opens up at the point in your code which triggered the exception, and while
 your program is at this point 'dead', all the data is still available and
 you can walk up and down the stack frame and understand the origin of the
 problem.
\layout Standard

Furthermore, you can use these debugging facilities both with the embedded
 IPython mode and without IPython at all.
 For an embedded shell (see sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:embed}

\end_inset 

), simply call the constructor with 
\family typewriter 
'-pdb'
\family default 
 in the argument string and automatically 
\family typewriter 
pdb
\family default 
 will be called if an uncaught exception is triggered by your code.
 
\layout Standard

For stand-alone use of the feature in your programs which do not use IPython
 at all, put the following lines toward the top of your 'main' routine:
\layout Standard
\align left 

\family typewriter 
import sys,IPython.ultraTB 
\newline 
sys.excepthook = IPython.ultraTB.FormattedTB(mode='Verbose', color_scheme='Linux',
 call_pdb=1)
\layout Standard

The 
\family typewriter 
mode
\family default 
 keyword can be either 
\family typewriter 
'Verbose'
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
'Plain'
\family default 
, giving either very detailed or normal tracebacks respectively.
 The 
\family typewriter 
color_scheme
\family default 
 keyword can be one of 
\family typewriter 
'NoColor'
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
'Linux'
\family default 
 (default) or 
\family typewriter 
'LightBG'
\family default 
.
 These are the same options which can be set in IPython with 
\family typewriter 
-colors
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
-xmode
\family default 
.
\layout Standard

This will give any of your programs detailed, colored tracebacks with automatic
 invocation of 
\family typewriter 
pdb
\family default 
.
\layout Standard

If you want more information on the use of the 
\family typewriter 
pdb
\family default 
 debugger, read the included 
\family typewriter 
pdb.doc
\family default 
 file (part of the standard Python distribution).
 On a stock Mandrake Linux system it is located at 
\family typewriter 
/usr/lib/python2.2/pdb.doc
\family default 
, but the easiest way to read it is by using the 
\family typewriter 
help()
\family default 
 function of the 
\family typewriter 
pdb
\family default 
 module as follows (in an IPython prompt):
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
In [1]: import pdb
\newline 
In [2]: pdb.help()
\layout Standard

This will load the 
\family typewriter 
pdb.doc
\family default 
 document in a file viewer for you automatically.
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:syntax-extensions}

\end_inset 

Extensions for syntax processing
\layout Standard

This isn't for the faint of heart, because the potential for breaking things
 is quite high.
 But it can be a very powerful and useful feature.
 In a nutshell, you can redefine the way IPython processes the user input
 line to accept new, special extensions to the syntax without needing to
 change any of IPython's own code.
\layout Standard

In the 
\family typewriter 
IPython/Extensions
\family default 
 directory you will find two examples supplied, which we will briefly describe
 now.
 These can be used 'as is' (and both provide very useful functionality),
 or you can use them as a starting point for writing your own extensions.
\layout Subsection

Pasting of code fragments starting with '
\family typewriter 
>>> 
\family default 
' or '
\family typewriter 
...
 
\family default 
'
\layout Standard

In the python tutorial it is common to find code examples which have been
 taken from real python sessions.
 The problem with those is that all the lines begin with either '
\family typewriter 
>>> 
\family default 
' or '
\family typewriter 
...
 
\family default 
', which makes it impossible to paste them all at once.
 One must instead do a line by line manual copying, carefully removing the
 leading extraneous characters.
\layout Standard

This extension identifies those starting characters and removes them from
 the input automatically, so that one can paste multi-line examples directly
 into IPython, saving a lot of time.
 Please look at the file 
\family typewriter 
InterpreterPasteInput.py
\family default 
 in the 
\family typewriter 
IPython/Extensions
\family default 
 directory for details on how this is done.
\layout Standard

IPython comes with a special profile enabling this feature, called 
\family typewriter 
tutorial
\family default 
\emph on 
.

\emph default 
 Simply start IPython via 
\family typewriter 
'ipython\SpecialChar ~
-p\SpecialChar ~
tutorial'
\family default 
 and the feature will be available.
 In a normal IPython session you can activate the feature by importing the
 corresponding module with:
\newline 

\family typewriter 
In [1]: import IPython.Extensions.InterpreterPasteInput
\layout Standard

The following is a 'screenshot' of how things work when this extension is
 on, copying an example from the standard tutorial:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
IPython profile: tutorial
\newline 
\SpecialChar ~

\newline 
*** Pasting of code with ">>>" or "..." has been enabled.
\newline 
\SpecialChar ~

\newline 
In [1]: >>> def fib2(n): # return Fibonacci series up to n
\newline 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 ...: ...\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 """Return a list containing the Fibonacci series up to n."""
\newline 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 ...: ...\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 result = []
\newline 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 ...: ...\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 a, b = 0, 1
\newline 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 ...: ...\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 while b < n:
\newline 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 ...: ...\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 result.append(b)\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 # see below
\newline 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 ...: ...\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 a, b = b, a+b
\newline 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 ...: ...\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 return result
\newline 
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 ...:
\newline 
\SpecialChar ~

\newline 
In [2]: fib2(10)
\newline 
Out[2]: [1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8]
\layout Standard

Note that as currently written, this extension does 
\emph on 
not 
\emph default 
recognize IPython's prompts for pasting.
 Those are more complicated, since the user can change them very easily,
 they involve numbers and can vary in length.
 One could however extract all the relevant information from the IPython
 instance and build an appropriate regular expression.
 This is left as an exercise for the reader.
\layout Subsection

Input of physical quantities with units
\layout Standard

The module 
\family typewriter 
PhysicalQInput
\family default 
 allows a simplified form of input for physical quantities with units.
 This file is meant to be used in conjunction with the 
\family typewriter 
PhysicalQInteractive
\family default 
 module (in the same directory) and 
\family typewriter 
Physics.PhysicalQuantities
\family default 
 from Konrad Hinsen's ScientificPython (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl{http://starship.python.net/crew/hinsen/scientific.html}

\end_inset 

).
\layout Standard

The 
\family typewriter 
Physics.PhysicalQuantities
\family default 
 module defines 
\family typewriter 
PhysicalQuantity
\family default 
 objects, but these must be declared as instances of a class.
 For example, to define 
\family typewriter 
v
\family default 
 as a velocity of 3\SpecialChar ~
m/s, normally you would write:
\family typewriter 

\newline 
In [1]: v = PhysicalQuantity(3,'m/s')
\layout Standard

Using the 
\family typewriter 
PhysicalQ_Input
\family default 
 extension this can be input instead as:
\family typewriter 

\newline 
In [1]: v = 3 m/s
\family default 

\newline 
which is much more convenient for interactive use (even though it is blatantly
 invalid Python syntax).
\layout Standard

The 
\family typewriter 
physics
\family default 
 profile supplied with IPython (enabled via 
\family typewriter 
'ipython -p physics'
\family default 
) uses these extensions, which you can also activate with:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
from math import * # math MUST be imported BEFORE PhysicalQInteractive
\newline 
from IPython.Extensions.PhysicalQInteractive import *
\newline 
import IPython.Extensions.PhysicalQInput
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:Gnuplot}

\end_inset 

Access to Gnuplot
\layout Standard

Through the magic extension system described in sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:magic}

\end_inset 

, IPython incorporates a mechanism for conveniently interfacing with the
 Gnuplot system (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl{http://www.gnuplot.vt.edu}

\end_inset 

).
 Gnuplot is a very complete 2D and 3D plotting package available for many
 operating systems and commonly included in modern Linux distributions.
 
\layout Standard

Besides having Gnuplot installed, this functionality requires the 
\family typewriter 
Gnuplot.py
\family default 
 module for interfacing python with Gnuplot.
 It can be downloaded from: 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl{http://gnuplot-py.sourceforge.net}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Subsection

Proper Gnuplot configuration
\layout Standard

'Out of the box', Gnuplot is configured with a rather poor set of size,
 color and linewidth choices which make the graphs fairly hard to read on
 modern high-resolution displays (although they work fine on old 640x480
 ones).
 Below is a section of my 
\family typewriter 
.Xdefaults
\family default 
 file which I use for having a more convenient Gnuplot setup.
 Remember to load it by running 
\family typewriter 
`xrdb .Xdefaults`
\family default 
:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
!******************************************************************
\newline 
! gnuplot options
\newline 
! modify this for a convenient window size
\newline 
gnuplot*geometry: 780x580
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
! on-screen font (not for PostScript)
\newline 
gnuplot*font: -misc-fixed-bold-r-normal--15-120-100-100-c-90-iso8859-1
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
! color options
\newline 
gnuplot*background: black
\newline 
gnuplot*textColor: white
\newline 
gnuplot*borderColor: white
\newline 
gnuplot*axisColor: white
\newline 
gnuplot*line1Color: red
\newline 
gnuplot*line2Color: green
\newline 
gnuplot*line3Color: blue
\newline 
gnuplot*line4Color: magenta
\newline 
gnuplot*line5Color: cyan
\newline 
gnuplot*line6Color: sienna
\newline 
gnuplot*line7Color: orange
\newline 
gnuplot*line8Color: coral
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
! multiplicative factor for point styles
\newline 
gnuplot*pointsize: 2
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
! line width options (in pixels)
\newline 
gnuplot*borderWidth: 2
\newline 
gnuplot*axisWidth: 2
\newline 
gnuplot*line1Width: 2
\newline 
gnuplot*line2Width: 2
\newline 
gnuplot*line3Width: 2
\newline 
gnuplot*line4Width: 2
\newline 
gnuplot*line5Width: 2
\newline 
gnuplot*line6Width: 2
\newline 
gnuplot*line7Width: 2
\newline 
gnuplot*line8Width: 2
\layout Subsection

The 
\family typewriter 
IPython.GnuplotRuntime
\family default 
 module
\layout Standard

IPython includes a module called 
\family typewriter 
Gnuplot2.py
\family default 
 which extends and improves the default 
\family typewriter 
Gnuplot
\family default 
.
\family typewriter 
py
\family default 
 (which it still relies upon).
 For example, the new 
\family typewriter 
plot
\family default 
 function adds several improvements to the original making it more convenient
 for interactive use, and 
\family typewriter 
hardcopy
\family default 
 fixes a bug in the original which under some systems makes the resulting
 PostScript files not be created.
\layout Standard

For scripting use, 
\family typewriter 
GnuplotRuntime.py
\family default 
 is provided, which wraps 
\family typewriter 
Gnuplot2.py
\family default 
 and creates a series of global aliases.
 These make it easy to control Gnuplot plotting jobs through the Python
 language.
\layout Standard

This system assumes you are using a reasonably recent version of Gnuplot
 with mouse support.
 If you are not and for some reason do not want to (or can not) upgrade,
 you'll need to set 
\family typewriter 
gnuplot_mouse=0
\family default 
 in the 
\family typewriter 
IPython.GnuplotRuntime
\family default 
 module to prevent an error message from always appearing.
\layout Standard

Below is some example code which illustrates how to configure Gnuplot inside
 your own programs but have it available for further interactive use through
 an embedded IPython instance.
 Simply run this file at a system prompt.
 This file is provided in your 
\family typewriter 
IPYTHONDIR
\family default 
 as 
\family typewriter 
example-gnuplot.py
\family default 
:
\layout Standard


\begin_inset Include \verbatiminput{../IPython/UserConfig/example-gnuplot.py}
preview false

\end_inset 


\layout Subsection

The 
\family typewriter 
numeric
\family default 
 profile: a scientific computing environment
\layout Standard

The 
\family typewriter 
numeric
\family default 
 IPython profile, which you can activate with '
\family typewriter 
ipython -p numeric
\family default 
' will automatically load the IPython Gnuplot extensions (plus Numeric and
 other useful things for numerical computing), contained in the 
\family typewriter 
IPython.GnuplotInteractive
\family default 
 module.
 This will create the globals 
\family typewriter 
Gnuplot 
\family default 
(an alias to the improved Gnuplot2 module), 
\family typewriter 
gp
\family default 
 (a Gnuplot active instance), the new magic commands 
\family typewriter 
@gpc
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
@gp_set_instance
\family default 
 and several other convenient globals.
 Type 
\family typewriter 
gphelp()
\family default 
 for further details.
\layout Standard

This should turn IPython into a convenient environment for numerical computing,
 with all the functions in the NumPy library and the Gnuplot facilities
 for plotting.
 Further improvements can be obtained by loading the SciPy libraries for
 scientific computing, available at 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl{http://scipy.org}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Standard

If you are in the middle of a working session with numerical objects and
 need to plot them but you didn't start the 
\family typewriter 
numeric
\family default 
 profile, you can load these extensions at any time by typing
\newline 

\family typewriter 
from GnuplotInteractive import *
\newline 

\family default 
at the IPython prompt.
 This will allow you to keep your objects intact and start using Gnuplot
 to view them.
\layout Section

Reporting bugs
\layout Standard

Ideally, IPython itself shouldn't crash.
 It will catch exceptions produced by you, but bugs in its internals will
 still crash it.
\layout Standard

In such a situation, IPython will leave a file named 
\family typewriter 
'IPython_crash_report.txt'
\family default 
 in your IPYTHONDIR directory (that way if crashes happen several times
 it won't litter many directories, the post-mortem file is always located
 in the same place and new occurrences just overwrite the previous one).
 If you can mail this file to the developers (see sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:credits}

\end_inset 

 for names and addresses), it will help us 
\emph on 
a lot
\emph default 
 in understanding the cause of the problem and fixing it sooner.
\layout Section

Brief history
\layout Subsection

Origins
\layout Standard

The current IPython system grew out of the following three projects:
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

ipython by Fernando Pérez.
 I was working on adding Mathematica-type prompts and a flexible configuration
 system (something better than $PYTHONSTARTUP) to the standard Python interactiv
e interpreter.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

IPP by Janko Hauser.
 Very well organized, great usability.
 Had an old help system.
 IPP was used as the `container' code into which I added the functionality
 from the other two systems.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

LazyPython by Nathan Gray.
 Simple but 
\emph on 
very
\emph default 
 powerful.
 The quick syntax (auto parens, auto quotes) and verbose/colored tracebacks
 were all taken from here.
\layout Standard

When I found out (see sec.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{figgins}

\end_inset 

) about IPP and LazyPython I tried to join all three into a unified system.
 I thought this could provide a very nice working environment, both for
 regular programming and scientific computing: shell-like features, IDL/Matlab
 numerics, Mathematica-type prompt history and great object introspection
 and help facilities.
 I think it worked reasonably well, though it was a lot more work I had
 initially planned.
\layout Subsection

Current status
\layout Standard

The above listed features work, and quite well for the most part.
 But until a major internal restructuring is done (see below), only bug
 fixing will be done, no other features will be added (unless very minor
 and well localized in the cleaner parts of the code).
\layout Standard

IPython consists of almost 11000 lines of pure python code, of which roughly
 50% are fairly clean.
 The other 50% are fragile, messy code which needs a massive restructuring
 before any further major work is done.
 Even the messy code is fairly well documented though, and most of the problems
 in the (non-existent) class design are well pointed to by a PyChecker run.
 So the rewriting work isn't that bad, it will just be time-consuming.
\layout Subsection

Future
\layout Standard

See the separate 
\family typewriter 
new_design
\family default 
 document for details.
 Ultimately, I would like to see IPython become part of the standard Python
 distribution as a `big brother with batteries' to the standard Python interacti
ve interpreter.
 But that will never happen with the current state of the code, so all contribut
ions are welcome.
\layout Section

License
\layout Standard

Unless indicated otherwise, files in this project are covered by the GNU
 Lesser General Public License (LGPL).
 Its full text is included in the file GNU-LGPL or can be obtained directly
 from the Free Software Foundation at: 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl{http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Standard

IPython is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
 WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
 FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
 See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
\layout Standard

Individual authors are the holders of the copyright for their code and are
 listed in each file.
\layout Standard

Some files (
\family typewriter 
DPyGetOpt.py
\family default 
, for example) may be licensed under different conditions.
 Ultimately each file indicates clearly the conditions under which its author/au
thors have decided to publish the code.
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:credits}

\end_inset 

Credits
\layout Standard

The main authors of the code are:
\layout Standard

Fernando Pérez <fperez@pizero.colorado.edu> (currently main contact)
\layout Standard

Janko Hauser <jhauser@ifm.uni-kiel.de> 
\layout Standard

Nathan Gray <n8gray@caltech.edu>
\layout Standard

And we are very grateful to:
\layout Standard

Bill Bumgarner <bbum@friday.com>: for providing the DPyGetOpt module which
 gives very powerful and convenient handling of command-line options (light
 years ahead of what Python 2.1.1's getopt module does).
\layout Standard

Ka-Ping Yee <ping@lfw.org>: for providing the Itpl module for convenient
 and powerful string interpolation with a much nicer syntax than formatting
 through the '%' operator.
\layout Standard

Arnd Bäcker <arnd.baecker@physik.uni-ulm.de>: for his many very useful suggestions
 and comments, and lots of help with testing and documentation checking.
 Many of IPython's newer features are a result of discussions with him (bugs
 are still my fault, not his).
\layout Standard

Obviously Guido van\SpecialChar ~
Rossum and the whole Python development team, that goes
 without saying.
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{figgins}

\end_inset 

Fernando would also like to thank Stephen Figgins <fig@monitor.net>, an O'Reilly
 Python editor.
 His Oct/11/01 article about IPP and LazyPython, was what got this project
 started.
 You can read it at: 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl{http://www.onlamp.com/pub/a/python/2001/10/11/pythonnews.html}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Standard

And last but not least, all the kind IPython users who have emailed bug
 reports, fixes, comments and ideas.
 A brief list follows, please let me know if I have ommitted your name by
 accident: 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Mike\SpecialChar ~
Heeter 
\family typewriter 
<korora@SDF.LONESTAR.ORG>
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Christopher\SpecialChar ~
Hart 
\family typewriter 
<hart@caltech.edu>
\family default 
 PDB integration.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Milan\SpecialChar ~
Zamazal 
\family typewriter 
<pdm@zamazal.org>
\family default 
 Emacs info.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Philip\SpecialChar ~
Hisley 
\family typewriter 
<compsys@starpower.net>
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Holger\SpecialChar ~
Krekel 
\family typewriter 
<pyth@devel.trillke.net>
\family default 
 Tab completion, lots more.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Alexander\SpecialChar ~
Schmolck 
\family typewriter 
<a.schmolck@gmx.net> 
\family default 
Emacs work, bug reports, bug fixes, ideas, lots more.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Robin\SpecialChar ~
Siebler 
\family typewriter 
<robinsiebler@starband.net>
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Ralf\SpecialChar ~
Ahlbrink
\family typewriter 
 <ralf_ahlbrink@web.de>
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Andrea\SpecialChar ~
Riciputi 
\family typewriter 
<andrea.riciputi@libero.it>
\family default 
 Mac OSX information.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Thorsten\SpecialChar ~
Kampe 
\family typewriter 
<thorsten@thorstenkampe.de>
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Fredrik\SpecialChar ~
Kant 
\family typewriter 
<fredrik.kant@front.com>
\family default 
 Windows setup.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Syver\SpecialChar ~
Enstad 
\family typewriter 
<syver-en@online.no>
\family default 
 Windows setup.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Richard 
\family typewriter 
<rxe@renre-europe.com>
\family default 
 Global embedding.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Hayden\SpecialChar ~
Callow 
\family typewriter 
<h.callow@elec.canterbury.ac.nz>
\family default 
 Gnuplot.py 1.6 compatibility.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Leonardo\SpecialChar ~
Santagada 
\family typewriter 
<retype@terra.com.br>
\family default 
 Fixes for Windows installation.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Christopher\SpecialChar ~
Armstrong 
\family typewriter 
<radix@twistedmatrix.com>
\family default 
 Bugfixes.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

François\SpecialChar ~
Pinard 
\family typewriter 
<pinard@iro.umontreal.ca>
\family default 
 Code and documentation fixes.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Cory\SpecialChar ~
Dodt 
\family typewriter 
<cdodt@fcoe.k12.ca.us>
\family default 
 Bug reports and Windows ideas.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Jack\SpecialChar ~
Moffit 
\family typewriter 
<jack@xiph.org>
\family default 
 Bug fixes, including the infamous color problem.
 This bug alone caused many lost hours and frustration, many thanks to him
 for the fix.
 I've always been a fan of Ogg & friends, now I have one more reason to
 like these folks.
\the_end
