#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{ae,aecompl}
\usepackage{hyperref}
\usepackage{html}
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 1.25in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1.25in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

IPython
\newline 

\size larger 
New design notes
\layout Author

Fernando Pérez
\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

This is a draft document with notes and ideas for the IPython rewrite.
 The section order and structure of this document roughly reflects in which
 order things should be done and what the dependencies are.
 This document is mainly a draft for developers, a pdf version is provided
 with the standard distribution in case regular users are interested and
 wish to contribute ideas.
\layout Standard

A tentative plan for the future:
\layout Itemize

0.2.x: series for bug fixing only and as a reference of functionality.
\layout Itemize

0.3.x: Start from a stable 0.2.x and restructure the code (see below) in 0.3.x
 until it has all the 0.2.x functionality but with a sound internal architecture.
\layout Itemize

0.4.x: once the 0.3.x series is completed and stable, release 0.4.x for future
 bug fixing.
\layout Itemize

0.5.x: future development on the new architecture.
\layout Standard

Ideally, IPython should have a clean class setup that would allow further
 extensions for special-purpose systems.
 I view IPython as a base system that provides a great interactive environment
 with full access to the Python language, and which could be used in many
 different contexts.
 The basic hooks are there: the magic extension syntax and the flexible
 system of recursive configuration files and profiles.
 But with a code as messy as the current one, nobody is going to touch it.
\layout Section

Lighten the code
\layout Standard

If we decide to base future versions of IPython on Python 2.3, which has
 the new Optik module (called optparse), it should be possible to drop DPyGetOpt.
 We should also remove the need for Itpl.
 Another area for trimming is the Gnuplot stuff: much of that could be merged
 into the mainline project.
 With these changes we could shed a fair bit of code from the main trunk.
\layout Section

Unit testing
\layout Standard

All new code should use a testing framework.
 Python seems to have very good testing facilities, I just need to learn
 how to use them.
 I should also check out QMTest at 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl{http://www.codesourcery.com/qm/qmtest}

\end_inset 

, it sounds interesting (it's Python-based too).
\layout Section

Configuration system
\layout Standard

Move away from the current ipythonrc format to using standard python files
 for configuration.
 This will require users to be slightly more careful in their syntax, but
 reduces code in IPython, is more in line with Python's normal form (using
 the $PYTHONSTARTUP file) and allows much more flexibility.
 I also think it's more 'pythonic', in using a single language for everything.
\layout Standard

Options can be set up with a function call which takes keywords and updates
 the options Struct.
\layout Standard

In order to maintain the recursive inclusion system, write an 'include'
 function which is basically a wrapper around safe_execfile().
 Also for alias definitions an alias() function will do.
 All functionality which we want to have at startup time for the users can
 be wrapped in a small module so that config files look like:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
from IPython.Startup import *
\newline 
...
\newline 
set_options(automagic=1,colors='NoColor',...)
\newline 
...
\newline 
include('mysetup.py')
\newline 
...
\newline 
alias('ls ls --color -l')
\newline 
...
 etc.
\layout Standard

Also, put 
\series bold 
all
\series default 
 aliases in here, out of the core code.
\layout Standard

The new system should allow for more seamless upgrading, so that:
\layout Itemize

It automatically recognizes when the config files need updating and does
 the upgrade.
\layout Itemize

It simply adds the new options to the user's config file without overwriting
 it.
 The current system is annoying since users need to manually re-sync their
 configuration after every update.
\layout Itemize

It detects obsolete options and informs the user to remove them from his
 config file.
\layout Standard

Here's a copy of Arnd Baecker suggestions on the matter:
\layout Standard

1.) upgrade: it might be nice to have an "auto" upgrade procedure: i.e.
 imagine that IPython is installed system-wide and gets upgraded, how does
 a user know, that an upgrade of the stuff in ~/.ipython is necessary ? So
 maybe one has to a keep a version number in ~/.ipython and if there is a
 mismatch with the started ipython, then invoke the upgrade procedure.
\layout Standard

2.) upgrade: I find that replacing the old files in ~/.ipython (after copying
 them to .old not optimal (for example, after every update, I have to change
 my color settings (and some others) in ~/.ipython/ipthonrc).
 So somehow keeping the old files and merging the new features would be
 nice.
 (but how to distinguish changes from version to version with changes made
 by the user ?) For, example, I would have to change in GnuplotMagic.py gnuplot_m
ouse to 1 after every upgrade ...
\layout Standard

This is surely a minor point - also things will change during the "BIG"
 rewrite, but maybe this is a point to keep in mind for this ?
\layout Standard

3.) upgrade: old, sometimes obsolete files stay in the ~/.ipython subdirectory.
 (hmm, maybe one could move all these into some subdirectory, but which
 name for that (via version-number ?) ?)
\layout Subsection

Command line options
\layout Standard

It would be great to design the command-line processing system so that it
 can be dynamically modified in some easy way.
 This would allow systems based on IPython to include their own command-line
 processing to either extend or fully replace IPython's.
\layout Section

OS-dependent code
\layout Standard

Options which are OS-dependent (such as colors and aliases) should be loaded
 via include files.
 That is, the general file will have:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
if os.name == 'posix':
\newline 
include('ipythonrc-posix.py')
\newline 
elif os.name == 'nt':
\newline 
include('ipythonrc-nt.py')...
\layout Standard

In the 
\family typewriter 
-posix
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
-nt
\family default 
, etc.
 files we'll set all os-specific options.
\layout Section

Merging with other shell systems
\layout Standard

This is listed before the big design issues, as it is something which should
 be kept in mind when that design is made.
\layout Standard

The following shell systems are out there and I think the whole design of
 IPython should try to be modular enough to make it possible to integrate
 its features into these.
 In all cases IPython should exist as a stand-alone, terminal based program.
 But it would be great if users of these other shells (some of them which
 have very nice features of their own, especially the graphical ones) could
 keep their environment but gain IPython's features.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

IDLE This is the standard, distributed as part of Python.
 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

pyrepl 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl{http://starship.python.net/crew/mwh/hacks/pyrepl.html}

\end_inset 

.
 This is a text (curses-based) shell-like replacement which doesn't have
 some of IPython's features, but has a crucially useful (and hard to implement)
 one: full multi-line editing.
 This turns the interactive interpreter into a true code testing and development
 environment.
 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

PyCrust 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl{http://sourceforge.net/projects/pycrust/}

\end_inset 

.
 Very nice, wxWindows based system.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

PythonWin 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl{http://starship.python.net/crew/mhammond/}

\end_inset 

.
 Similar to PyCrust in some respects, a very good and free Python development
 environment for Windows systems.
\layout Section

Class design
\layout Standard

This is the big one.
 Currently classes use each other in a very messy way, poking inside one
 another for data and methods.
 ipmaker() adds tons of stuff to the main __IP instance by hand, and the
 mix-ins used (Logger, Magic, etc) mean the final __IP instance has a million
 things in it.
 All that needs to be cleanly broken down with well defined interfaces amongst
 the different classes, and probably no mix-ins.
\layout Standard

The best approach is probably to have all the sub-systems which are currently
 mixins be fully independent classes which talk back only to the main instance
 (and 
\series bold 
not
\series default 
 to each other).
 In the main instance there should be an object whose job is to handle communica
tion with the sub-systems.
\layout Standard

I should probably learn a little UML and diagram this whole thing before
 I start coding.
\layout Subsection

Magic
\layout Standard

Now all methods which will become publicly available are called Magic.magic_name,
 the magic_ should go away.
 Then, Magic instead of being a mix-in should simply be an attribute of
 __IP:
\layout Standard

__IP.Magic = Magic()
\layout Standard

This will then give all the magic functions as __IP.Magic.name(), which is
 much cleaner.
 This will also force a better separation so that Magic doesn't poke inside
 __IP so much.
 In the constructor, Magic should get whatever information it needs to know
 about __IP (even if it means a pointer to __IP itself, but at least we'll
 know where it is.
 Right now since it's a mix-in, there's no way to know which variables belong
 to whom).
\layout Standard

Build a class MagicFunction so that adding new functions is a matter of:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
my_magic = MagicFunction(category = 'System utilities')
\newline 
my_magic.__call__ = ...
\layout Standard

Features:
\layout Itemize

The class constructor should automatically register the functions and keep
 a table with category sections for easy sorting/viewing.
\layout Itemize

The object interface must allow automatic building of a GUI for them.
 This requires registering the options the command takes, the number of
 arguments, etc, in a formal way.
 The advantage of this approach is that it allows not only to add GUIs to
 the magics, but also for a much more intelligent building of docstrings,
 and better parsing of options and arguments.
\layout Standard

Also think through better an alias system for magics.
 Since the magic system is like a command shell inside ipython, the relation
 between these aliases and system aliases should be cleanly thought out.
\layout Subsection

Color schemes
\layout Standard

These should be loaded from some kind of resource file so they are easier
 to modify by the user.
\layout Section

Hooks
\layout Standard

IPython should have a modular system where functions can register themselves
 for certain tasks.
 Currently changing functionality requires overriding certain specific methods,
 there should be a clean API for this to be done.
\layout Subsection

whos hook
\layout Standard

This was a very nice suggestion from Alexander Schmolck <a.schmolck@gmx.net>:
\layout Standard

2.
 I think it would also be very helpful if there where some sort of hook
 for ``whos`` that let one customize display formaters depending on the
 object type.
\layout Standard

For example I'd rather have a whos that formats an array like:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
Variable Type Data/Length
\newline 
------------------------------ 
\newline 
a array size: 4x3 type: 'Float'
\layout Standard

than
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
Variable Type Data/Length 
\newline 
------------------------------
\newline 
a array [[ 0.
 1.
 2.
 3<...> 8.
 9.
 10.
 11.]]
\layout Section

Manuals
\layout Standard

The documentation should be generated from docstrings for the command line
 args and all the magic commands.
 Look into one of the simple text markup systems to see if we can get latex
 (for reLyXing later) out of this.
 Part of the build command would then be to make an update of the docs based
 on this, thus giving more complete manual (and guaranteed to be in sync
 with the code docstrings).
\layout Standard

[PARTLY DONE] At least now all magics are auto-documented, works farily
 well.
 Limited Latex formatting yet.
\layout Subsection

Integration with pydoc-help
\layout Standard

It should be possible to have access to the manual via the pydoc help system
 somehow.
 This might require subclassing the pydoc help, or figuring out how to add
 the IPython docs in the right form so that help() finds them.
\layout Standard

Some comments from Arnd and my reply on this topic:
\layout Standard

> ((Generally I would like to have the nice documentation > more easily
 accessable from within ipython ...
 > Many people just don't read documentation, even if it is > as good as
 the one of IPython ))
\layout Standard

That's an excellent point.
 I've added a note to this effect in new_design.
 Basically I'd like help() to naturally access the IPython docs.
 Since they are already there in html for the user, it's probably a matter
 of playing a bit with pydoc to tell it where to find them.
 It would definitely make for a much cleaner system.
 Right now the information on IPython is:
\layout Standard

-ipython --help at the command line: info on command line switches 
\layout Standard

-? at the ipython prompt: overview of IPython 
\layout Standard

-magic at the ipython prompt: overview of the magic system 
\layout Standard

-external docs (html/pdf)
\layout Standard

All that should be better integrated seamlessly in the help() system, so
 that you can simply say:
\layout Standard

help ipython -> full documentation access 
\layout Standard

help magic -> magic overview 
\layout Standard

help profile -> help on current profile 
\layout Standard

help -> normal python help access.
\layout Section

Graphical object browsers
\layout Standard

I'd like a system for graphically browsing through objects.
 
\family typewriter 
@obrowse
\family default 
 should open a widged with all the things which 
\family typewriter 
@who
\family default 
 lists, but cliking on each object would open a dedicated object viewer
 (also accessible as 
\family typewriter 
@oview <object>
\family default 
).
 This object viewer could show a summary of what 
\family typewriter 
<object>?
\family default 
 currently shows, but also colorize source code and show it via an html
 browser, show all attributes and methods of a given object (themselves
 openable in their own viewers, since in Python everything is an object),
 links to the parent classes, etc.
\layout Standard

The object viewer widget should be extensible, so that one can add methods
 to view certain types of objects in a special way (for example, plotting
 Numeric arrays via grace or gnuplot).
 This would be very useful when using IPython as part of an interactive
 complex system for working with certain types of data.
\layout Standard

I should look at what PyCrust has to offer along these lines, at least as
 a starting point.
\layout Section

Miscellaneous small things
\layout Itemize

Collect whatever variables matter from the environment in some globals for
 __IP, so we're not testing for them constantly (like $HOME, $TERM, etc.)
\layout Section

Session restoring
\layout Standard

I've convinced myself that session restore by log replay is too fragile
 and tricky to ever work reliably.
 Plus it can be dog slow.
 I'd rather have a way of saving/restoring the *current* memory state of
 IPython.
 I tried with pickle but failed (can't pickle modules).
 This seems the right way to do it to me, but it will have to wait until
 someone tells me of a robust way of dumping/reloading *all* of the user
 namespace in a file.
\layout Standard

Probably the best approach will be to pickle as much as possible and record
 what can not be pickled for manual reload (such as modules).
 This is not trivial to get to work reliably, so it's best left for after
 the code restructuring.
\layout Standard

The following issues exist (old notes, see above paragraph for my current
 take on the issue):
\layout Itemize

magic lines aren't properly re-executed when a log file is reloaded (and
 some of them, like clear or run, may change the environment).
 So session restore isn't 100% perfect.
\layout Itemize

auto-quote/parens lines aren't replayed either.
 All this could be done, but it needs some work.
 Basically it requires re-running the log through IPython itself, not through
 python.
\layout Itemize

_p variables aren't restored with a session.
 Fix: same as above.
\layout Section

Tips system
\layout Standard

It would be nice to have a tip() function which gives tips to users in some
 situations, but keeps track of already-given tips so they aren't given
 every time.
 This could be done by pickling a dict of given tips to IPYTHONDIR.
\layout Section

TAB completer
\layout Standard

Some suggestions from Arnd Baecker:
\layout Standard

a) For file related commands (ls, cat, ...) it would be nice to be able to
 TAB complete the files in the current directory.
 (once you started typing something which is uniquely a file, this leads
 to this effect, apart from going through the list of possible completions
 ...).
 (I know that this point is in your documentation.)
\layout Standard

More general, this might lead to something like command specific completion
 ?
\layout Section

Debugger
\layout Standard

Current system uses a minimally tweaked pdb.
 Fine-tune it a bit, to provide at least:
\layout Itemize

Tab-completion in each stack frame.
 See email to Chris Hart for details.
\layout Itemize

Object information via ? at least.
 Break up magic_oinfo a bit so that pdb can call it without loading all
 of IPython.
 If possible, also have the other magics for object study: doc, source,
 pdef and pfile.
\layout Itemize

Shell access via !
\layout Itemize

Syntax highlighting in listings.
 Use py2html code, implement color schemes.
\layout Section

Future improvements
\layout Itemize

When from <mod> import * is used, first check the existing namespace and
 at least issue a warning on screen if names are overwritten.
\layout Itemize

Auto indent? This would be nice to have, don't know how tricky to do.
\layout Subsection

Better completion a la zsh
\layout Standard

This was suggested by Arnd:
\layout Standard

> >\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 More general, this might lead to something like
\layout Standard

> >\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar ~
 command specific completion ?
\layout Standard

>
\layout Standard

> I'm not sure what you mean here.
\layout Standard

\SpecialChar ~

\layout Standard

Sorry, that was not understandable, indeed ...
\layout Standard

I thought of something like
\layout Standard

\SpecialChar ~
- cd and then use TAB to go through the list of directories
\layout Standard

\SpecialChar ~
- ls and then TAB to consider all files and directories
\layout Standard

\SpecialChar ~
- cat and TAB: only files (no directories ...)
\layout Standard

\SpecialChar ~

\layout Standard

For zsh things like this are established by defining in .zshrc
\layout Standard

\SpecialChar ~

\layout Standard

compctl -g '*.dvi' xdvi
\layout Standard

compctl -g '*.dvi' dvips
\layout Standard

compctl -g '*.tex' latex
\layout Standard

compctl -g '*.tex' tex
\layout Standard

...
\layout Section

Immediate TODO and bug list
\layout Standard

Things that should be done for the current series, before starting major
 changes.
\layout Itemize

Fix exception reporting.
 It seems that inspect is getting the build paths for sources instead of
 the current paths, and that's confusing ultraTB.
\newline 
The problem is actually with the way redhat built python:
\newline 

\family typewriter 
In [3]: pickle.dump.func_code.co_filename 
\newline 
Out[3]: '/usr/src/build/143041-i386/install/usr/lib/python2.2/pickle.py'
\newline 
In [4]: pickle.__file__ 
\newline 
Out[4]: '/usr/lib/python2.2/pickle.pyc'
\newline 

\family default 
Since those build files can't be found, we get None as filenames for all
 functions which are part of the standard distribution.
 Who knows how they built python, because this problem does _not_ occur
 with normal distutils-based builds:
\newline 

\family typewriter 
In [2]: Numeric.array_str.func_code.co_filename
\newline 
Out[2]: '/usr/lib/python2.2/site-packages/Numeric/Numeric.py'
\newline 

\family default 
Even though Numeric was first built in some separate directory and only
 later installed there.
\layout Itemize

When ';' is appended to the end of the line, the output cache is still being
 set (along with _).
\layout Itemize

Make the output cache depth independent of the input one.
 This way one can have say only the last 10 results stored and still have
 a long input history/cache.
\layout Itemize

Fix the fact that importing a shell for embedding screws up the command-line
 history.
 This can be done by not importing the history file when the shell is already
 inside ipython.
\layout Itemize

Simplify a bit the output of ?.
 There seems to be more detail in ? than necessary for daily work, maybe
 some things should be moved to ??.
\layout Itemize

Fix Windows bug reported by Tony Cappellini.
\layout Itemize

Improve Windows installer.
 Suggestion by Cory Dodt:
\newline 

\newline 
And the suggestion: I noticed that you do some tricks with setup.py so that
 you can double-click it.
 I _suspect_ you did this because bdist_wininst doesn't do post-installation
 stuff, meaning you can't install your data files and documentation to a
 sensible place, all you can do is drop code into c:
\backslash 
pythonxx.
\newline 

\newline 
I hit this problem on my own project.
 The solution, if you're interested in it, is to get cvs distutils (version
 1.0.3 currently).
\newline 

\newline 
c:
\backslash 
>python setup.py bdist_wininst --install-script your_post_install_stuff.py
\newline 

\newline 
your_post_install_stuff.py can do anything you want.
 It sends stdout to a frame that's displayed directly in the installer,
 which is very nice and Windows-y.
 And you can distribute an executable, instead of a zip file.
 
\layout Itemize

Try to add readline support to windows: http://newcenturycomputers.net/projects/r
eadline.html.
 Currently using this apparently crashes everything (see report by Thilo
 Ernst).
 It may be fixable.
\layout Itemize

Finish the Emacs integration (Alex & François).
 This includes fixing the manual and deciding whether to include ipython.el
 along with IPython itself (seems like a good idea, talk to Alex).
\layout Itemize

Allow ipython to handle input from stdin.
 Typical test case:
\newline 

\family typewriter 
[~]> [~]> echo "print 2+4" | python 
\newline 
6 
\newline 
[~]> echo "print 2+4" | ipython 
\newline 
python: Objects/stringobject.c:111: PyString_FromString: Assertion `str !=
 ((void *)0)' failed.
 
\newline 
Abort 
\family default 

\newline 
This matters also for emacs integration, since a C-c-| will crash if ipython
 hasn't been opened yet.
 This should include supporting option '-c' just like the regular python.
\layout Itemize

Get Holger's completer in, once he adds filename completion.
\layout Itemize

Add an error() function which is basically warn(level=4), or similar.
\layout Itemize

Add @showopt/@setopt (decide name) for viewing/setting all options.
 The existing option-setting magics should become aliases for setopt calls.
\layout Itemize

Consider redesigning the output traps.
 They cause problems when users try to execute code which relies on sys.stdout
 being the 'true' sys.stdout.
 The best solution is probably to print the banner first, and then just
 execute all the user code straight with no output traps at all.
 Whatever comes out comes out.
 This makes the ipython code actually simpler, and eliminates the problem
 altogether.
\layout Standard

Lower priority stuff:
\layout Itemize

'cd' under windows doesn't know how to change drive letters.
 
\layout Itemize

It would be nice to be able to continue with python stuff after an @ command.
 For instance "@run something; test_stuff()" in order to test stuff even
 faster.
 Suggestion by Kasper Souren <Kasper.Souren@ircam.fr>
\layout Itemize

Look at how f2py colors strings.
 It works just fine with an xterm, so maybe this will also solve the windows
 problems.
 Maybe.
 If nothing else, fixing the xterm behavior is good (also for cygwin users
 who don't know about rxvt).
\newline 
Done(partly).
 I changed some code which seems to work better.
 But I should refactor ultraTB & friends to use the colors as string templates
 which can color a string in one pass.
 Something like 'Colors.filename % filename' should do the necessary wrapping
 without the need for open/close color calls.
 The f2py approach uses function calls for everything, which is probably
 a performance problem for something with as much coloring as tracebacks.
\layout Itemize

Check problems with rpm generation (see email by Vasudev Ram).
 Currently (RedHat 8.0) rpm generation is just broken.
 This seems to be a distutils bug, as it is calling rpm with the -ba option
 which rpm doesn't recognize.
 I think the problem is that RedHat moved rpm building to the rpmbuild command.
 This means I won't be distributing rpms for the time being.
\layout Itemize

Run a 'first time wizard' which configures a few things for the user, such
 as color_info, editor and the like.
\layout Itemize

Logging: @logstart and -log should start logfiles in ~.ipython, but with
 unique names in case of collisions.
 This would prevent ipython.log files all over while also allowing multiple
 sessions.
 Also the -log option should take an optional filename, instead of having
 a separate -logfile option.
\newline 
In general the logging system needs a serious cleanup.
 Many functions now in Magic should be moved to Logger, and the magic @s
 should be very simple wrappers to the Logger methods.
\layout Section

Outline of steps
\layout Standard

Here's a rough outline of the order in which to start implementing the various
 parts of the redesign.
 The first 'test of success' should be a clean pychecker run (not the mess
 we get right now).
\layout Itemize

Make Logger and Magic not be mixins but attributes of the main class.
 
\begin_deeper 
\layout Itemize

Magic should have a pointer back to the main instance (even if this creates
 a recursive structure) so it can control it with minimal message-passing
 machinery.
 
\layout Itemize

Logger can be a standalone object, simply with a nice, clean interface.
\end_deeper 
\layout Itemize

Change to python-based config system.
\layout Itemize

Move make_IPython() into the main shell class, as part of the constructor.
 Do this 
\emph on 
after 
\emph default 
the config system has been changed, debugging will be a lot easier then.
\layout Itemize

Merge the embeddable class and the normal one into one.
 After all, the standard ipython script 
\emph on 
is
\emph default 
 a python program with IPython embedded in it.
 There's no need for two separate classes (
\emph on 
maybe
\emph default 
 keep the old one around for the sake of backwards compatibility).
\the_end
